**gold_text:**
On the other hand, two of the cases relied on by Detroit, Denison Mattress Factory v. Spring-Air
Company, 308 F.2d 403 (5th Cir.1962); Sheila’s Shine Products, Inc. v. Sheila Shine, Inc., 486 F.2d
114 (5th Cir.1973) are of no help in determining this issue. Those cases merely recognize the rule
that a trademark owner’s uncontrolled or “naked” licensing of a mark may result in the trademark
ceasing to function as a symbol of quality and controlled origin, which has been characterized as
abandonment. This rule of uncontrolled licensing of a trademark is inapplicable to the instant case
as no evidence of licensing has been presented. The other case relied on by Detroit, Saxlehner v.
Eisener & Mendelson Co., 179 U.S. 19, 21 S.Ct. 7, 45 L.Ed. 60 (1900) does note the remedial actions
taken by a trademark owner against other infringers in its discussion of abandonment; however,
Saxlehner is factually distinguishable from the instant case because in Saxlehner the plaintiff’s
mark “Hunyadi” was found to have become the generic name in this country for a type of water after
others had used the name for twenty years without being sued by the plaintiff.

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
The trial court’s instruction on abandonment essentially followed the principles outlined in Denison
Mattress Factory v. Spring-Air Co., 308 F.2d 403, which highlighted that a trademark owner’s failure
to exercise control and supervision over the licensee’s use of the mark might lead to estoppel.
However, in this context, it focuses on whether Sweetheart's inaction towards other infringers like
Formfit and Douglas Stephens led to an implied abandonment of their rights.  Acts that are generally
sufficient to establish abandonment—as noted in Northern Pac. Ry. Co. v. United States and
subsequent cases like Saxlehner v. Eisner & Mendelson Co., 179 U.S. 19—can be negated by explaining
an actual intent not to relinquish the rights. This is further supported by 486 F.2d 114, where the
lack of control and supervision over an extended period may preclude the trademark owner from later
contesting usage. Given Sweetheart’s proactive measures against several infringers were documented,
the nuanced application of these principles indicates that the trial court may have erred in its
wholesale application of abandonment.  In summary, evidence relating to Sweetheart's actions towards
other infringers should have been carefully weighed to discern between mere delay and genuine
abandonment of trademark rights. The misstep in the jury instruction and subsequent handling of the
abandonment defense forms a basis for reversal and remand for a retrial.


**Label:** 2


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
 <answer> The court erred in denying Sweetheart's motion to amend its complaint to include a count
for trademark infringement. Rule 15(a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure provides that leave
to amend a pleading "shall be freely given when justice so requires." In Foman v. Davis, 371 U.S.
178, 182, 83 S.Ct. 227, 230, 9 L.Ed.2d 222 (1962), the Supreme Court stated that "if the underlying
facts or circumstances relied upon by a plaintiff may be a proper subject of relief, he ought to be
afforded an opportunity to test his claim on the merits." The court's refusal to permit Sweetheart
to amend its complaint was an abuse of discretion.  The court also erred in refusing to admit
evidence of remedial actions taken by Sweetheart against other manufacturers. Denison Mattress
Factory v. Spring-Air Co., 308 F.2d 403, 409 (5th Cir.1962), held that a trademark owner's failure
to exercise control and supervision over the use of the mark by a licensee may estop the owner from
challenging the use of the mark and business developed during the period of unsupervised use.
Similarly, Saxlehner v. Eisner & Mendelson Co., 179 U.S. 19, 25 L.Ed. 769 (1900), held that a
trademark owner's failure to take action against infringers may estop the owner from challenging the
use of the mark.  The court's admission of Detroit's evidence of the existence of other
manufacturers of similar designs was relevant to the issue of whether Sweetheart had any proprietary
rights in the unregistered designs. Ambrosia Chocolate Co. v. Ambrosia Cake Bakery, 165 F.2d 693
(4th Cir.1947), cert. denied 333 U.S. 882, 68 S.Ct. 914, 92 L.Ed. 1157 (1948), held that a trademark
owner's affirmative conduct toward a defendant may be evidence of acquiescence.  The court's
instruction on abandonment was also error. United States Jaycees v. San Francisco Jr. Chamber of
Commerce, 354 F.Supp. 61, 73 (N.D.Cal.1972), aff'd 513 F.2d 1226 (9th Cir.1975), held that evidence
of a plaintiff's failure to


**Label:** 2, 3

***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-finetuned:***
  The district court’s instruction on abandonment was also erroneous in that it failed to
distinguish between the cases where a trademark owner’s failure to sue other infringers is relevant
and those where it is not. In Denison Mattress Factory v. Spring-Air Co., 308 F.2d 403 (5th
Cir.1962), the court held that a trademark owner’s failure to sue other infringers is relevant to
the issue of abandonment only if the owner has a duty to control the use of the mark by others. In
the case at bar, the court’s instruction on abandonment failed to recognize that Sweetheart had a
duty to control the use of its mark by others. As a result, the court’s instruction on abandonment
was also prejudicial error. See, e.g., Saxlehner v. Eisner & Mendelson Co., 179 U.S. 19, 25 L.Ed.
769 (1900). The court’s instruction on abandonment was also erroneous in that it failed to recognize
that the trademark owner’s failure to sue other infringers is only relevant if the owner has a duty
to control the use of the mark by others. In the case at bar, the court’s instruction on abandonment
failed to recognize that Sweetheart had a duty to control the use of its mark by others. As a
result, the court’s instruction on abandonment was also prejudicial error. See, e.g., id. The
court’s instruction on abandonment was also erroneous in that it failed to recognize that the
trademark owner’s failure to sue other infringers is only relevant if the owner has a duty to
control the use of the mark by others. In the case at bar, the court’s instruction on abandonment
failed to recognize that Sweetheart had a duty to control the use of its mark by others. As a
result, the court’s instruction on abandonment was also prejudicial error. See, e.g., id. The
court’s instruction on abandonment was also erroneous in that it failed to recognize that the
trademark owner’s failure to sue other infringers is only relevant if the owner has a duty to
control the use of the mark by others. In the case at bar, the court’s instruction on abandonment
failed to recognize that Sweetheart had a duty to control the use of its mark by others. As a
result, the court’s instruction on abandonment was also prejudicial error. See, e.g., id. The
court’s instruction on abandonment was also erroneous in that it failed to recognize that the
trademark owner’s failure to sue other infr


**Label:** 
1

**citations:** ['308 F.2d 403', '486 F.2d 114', '179 U.S. 19']

***short_citations_0:*** 308 F.2d 403

to buy the ticking, innerspring units and labels from sources specified by Spring-Air. In Northern Pac. Ry. Co. v. United States, supra, this was said: “For our purposes a tying agreement may be defined as an agreement by a party to sell one product but only on condition that the buyer also purchase a different (or tied) product, or at least agree that he will not purchase that product from any other supplier.” Here, there was no agreement by Spring-Air to sell any of the items involved, nor was there any condition requiring Denison to also purchase a different product from Spring-Air. Instead, the agreement specified sources other than Spring-Air from which Denison should purchase specified materials as a means whereby Spring-Air could control the nature and quality of its own product under its own trademark. The trademark would be of no worth unless the public could be sure that every mattress which bore that mark was uniform both in exterior design and interior quality. Denison must accept the judgment of Spring-Air on this requirement. The record shows that Denison could and did purchase from competitive suppliers all of the innerspring units it desired for use in its private brand products of which its annual volume ranged between one million and three million dollars. It is doubtful that every “tie-in” device is unlawful. Dehydrating Process Co. v. Smith, supra, 292 F.2d 653. We find nothing in the record which requires us to disagree with the findings and conclusions of the

***short_citations_1:*** 486 F.2d 114

but also a concurrent duty to exercise control and supervision over the licensee’s use of the mark. Denison Mattress Factory v. Spring-Air Co., 5 Cir. 1962, 308 F.2d 403, 409. Cf. Kidd v. Johnson, 1879, 100 U.S. 617, 25 L.Ed. 769. Failure to exercise such control and supervision for a significant period of time may estop the trademark owner from challenging the use of the mark and business which the licensee has developed during the period of such unsupervised use. Denison Mattress Factory v. Spring-Air Co., supra. This principle is an analogue to the es-toppel against a trademark owner who knowingly sits silently by while infring-ers use his trademark over a significant period of time. Saxlehner v. Eisner & Mendelson Co., 1900, 179 U.S. 19, 21 S. Ct. 7, 45 L.Ed. 60; Dwinell-Wright Co. v. White House Milk Co., 2 Cir. 1943, 132 F.2d 822. The undisputed failure by the MeCaffertys to exercise any supervision or control over the activities of Pan American or its successor SS Florida leads us to hold that SS California is estopped to challenge the business which SS Florida has built up under the mark Sheila Shine. As we develop, infra, however, this estoppel precludes challenge only in the trade area awarded to SS Florida. The lower court also found that the MeCaffertys abandoned any established business in Sheila Shine polish outside the states of California, Nevada, Oregon, Washington, Utah, Colorado, and Hawaii Shortly after the January, 1955 transaction. SS California correctly contends that mere

***short_citations_2:*** 179 U.S. 19

an actual intent to abandon. Acts which unexplained would .be sufficient to establish an abandonment may be answered by showing that there never was an intention to give up and relinquish the right claimed. Singer Mfg. Co. v. June Mfg. Co., 163 U. S. 169, 186; Moore v. Stevenson, 27 Conn. 13; Livermore v. White, 74 Maine, 452; Judson v. Malloy, 40 California, 299; Hickman v. Link, 116 Missouri, 123. And in a recent English case this doctrine has been applied to a case of trade-marks. Mouson v. Boehm, 26 Ch. Div. 398. With regard to the defence of abandonment, it may with confidence be said that there is but very slight evidence of any personal intention on the part of Andreas Saxlehner or his wife to abandon the use of the word “ Hunyadi or dedicate the same to the public, and none at all of an intent to abandon the peculiar bottles and labels in connection with which he sold his waters. In fact, Saxlehner’s whole life was a constant protest against the use by others of the name “ Hunyadi.” He discovered his spring in 1862, and in 1863 obtained permission to give it the name, of Hunyadi Spring. He carried on an uninterrupted trade under that name until 1872. It also appears from the certificate of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry that the trade-mark “Hunyadi Janos” was, on December 12, 1872, registered, and that previously to such registration no trade-mark was entered in which the

**prev_text:**
CHAPMAN, Circuit Judge: In this action for injunctive relief for false designation of origin under §
43(a) of the Lanham Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1125(a) and unfajr competition, plaintiff Sweetheart Plastics,
Inc. (Sweetheart) appeals from the judgment entered on the jury verdict in favor 0f defendant
Detroit Forming, Inc. (Detroit). Sweetheart claims the district court erred in: (1) denying
Sweetheart’s motion to amend its complaint; (2) refusing ac*m^ evidence of actions taken by
Sweetheart against other manufacturers of substantially similar designs, and then charging the jury
^ to consider whether Sweetheart, by taking no action against °tber manufacturers, acquiesced in the
manufacture of the dishes by others or abandoned its rights; (3) admitting evidence of the existence
of other manufacturers of similar designs; (4) charging the jury that evidence of Sweetheart’s delay
in taking action against other infringers could be considered relevant to Detroit’s defenses of
estoppel by acquiescence and abandonment; (5) submitting Detroit’s defenses to the jury; and (6)
refusing to grant a continuance of the trial. Finding that the district court abused its discretion
in refusing to permit Sweetheart to amend its complaint under the circumstances; erred ¡n charging
the jury that the evidence of Sweetheart’s failure to control other manufacturers could be
considered relative to Detroit’s defenses of estoppel by acquiesCence and abandonment; and
erroneously submitted the defense of abandonment to the jury, we reverse and remand. I This action
concerns a series of four disposable plastic ice cream dishes which have been marketed by Sweetheart
for the past twenty-five years. Two are rowboat-shaped dishes for banana splits, and two are bowl-
shaped dishes for sundaes. Sweetheart does not have a registered trademark on the dish designs, but
does own a registered trademark on the mark “Banana Boat.” Sweetheart alleged in its complaint that
by virtue of its having sold billions of the dishes, and spent considerable sums Advertising and
promoting them, the designs have come to identify its products as originating from a single source,
Sweetheart. During the 1960’s a company called Van Brode Milling Company (Van Brode) marketed a
boat-shaped plastic ice cream dish. This practice was discontinued when Sweetheart asked Van Brode
to stop. More recently, three other companies marketed lines of plastic disposable ice cream dishes
which were substantially similar in design to Sweetheart’s line. These companies are Formfit
Plastics, Inc. (Formfit), Douglas Stephens Plastics, Inc. (Douglas Stephens), and defendant Detroit.
In addition to the instant litigation, Sweetheart has filed a companion case in the United States
District Court for the District of New Jersey against Douglas Stephens. On July 19, 1983, six days
before trial commenced, Sweetheart received certain documents it had requested from Detroit on
January 28, 1983. Although the documents were ones in which Detroit had claimed that trade secrets
were contained, a stipulated protective order had been entered by the court on June 9, 1983 which
provided that confidential documents filed with the court would be sealed and segregated in the
court’s files. One of the documents received by Sweetheart on July 19, 1983 was an invoice on which
Detroit had described certain of its dishes as “Banana Boat Trays.” On the first day of trial
Sweetheart moved to amend its complaint to include a count for trademark infringement under 15
U.S.C. § 1114(1). Detroit opposed the motion as untimely. The district court denied the motion,
stating: “I deny your motion, plaintiff’s motion, comes too late. If that’s all the proof you’ve
got, you should have had it before then.” Trial began on July 25, 1983. During cross-examination of
one of Sweetheart’s witnesses, counsel for Detroit was permitted to inquire, over Sweetheart’s
objection, as to Sweetheart’s knowledge of the use by Van Brode of a design alleged by Detroit to be
similar to one of the designs in question. Also over Sweetheart’s objection, Detroit was permitted
to publish deposition testimony of Stewart M. Graff, president of Douglas Stephens, and Norman
Thrope, president of Formfit, which showed the use by both companies of dishes similar in design to
the dishes manufactured by Sweetheart. The district court then permitted counsel for Sweetheart, by
way of cross-examination, to publish other portions of the same depositions which revealed acts
taken by Sweetheart against the two companies. Specifically, the portion of the Thrope deposition
published by Sweetheart showed that Sweetheart had notified Formfit that it was unhappy with
Formfit’s shipping of boat-shaped dishes, and considered Formfit’s acts to be infringements on
Sweetheart’s trademark rights. The portion of the Graff deposition published by Sweetheart showed
that Sweetheart asked Douglas Stephens to cease manufacturing rowboat-shaped dishes and subsequently
brought suit in New Jersey against Douglas Stephens for manufacturing the products. Later in
Sweetheart’s rebuttal case, the trial court permitted Sweetheart’s president to testify that
Sweetheart had complained to Van Brode about the boat- shaped dish it produced, and that Van Brode
thereafter stopped producing it. However, the trial judge prohibited Sweetheart from introducing in
its rebuttal case evidence of the remedial actions taken by Sweetheart against Douglas Stephens and
Formfit because there had been no formal adjudications in those actions. Subsequently, the court
instructed the jury to consider remedial actions taken by Sweetheart against the other manufacturers
in determining whether Sweetheart acquiesced in the manufacture of similar dishes by others or
abandoned its rights in the designs in question. These comments were reiterated when the district
court, at the jury’s request, recharged the jury as to Detroit’s defenses. II The initial question
to be decided is whether the district court erred in denying Sweetheart’s motion to amend its
complaint. Detroit asserts Sweetheart could have included the count for trademark infringement in
its complaint as originally filed, or moved to amend its complaint earlier because the words “Banana
Boat” had previously appeared in certain documents which Detroit produced at the time it filed its
answer and counterclaim. Detroit further contends it would have been unduly prejudiced if Sweetheart
had been permitted to add a count for trademark infringement on the first day of trial. Rule 15(a)
of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure provides that leave to amend a pleading “shall be freely
given when justice so requires.” The United States Supreme Court has admonished that “this mandate
is to be heeded.” Foman v. Davis, 371 U.S. 178, 182, 83 S.Ct. 227, 230, 9 L.Ed.2d 222 (1962). In
Foman v. Davis, the Court stated further, If the underlying facts or circumstances relied upon by a
plaintiff may be a proper subject of relief, he ought to be afforded an opportunity to test his
claim on the merits. In the absence of any apparent or declared reason — such as undue delay, bad
faith or dilatory motive on the part of the movant, repeated failure to cure deficiencies by
amendments previously allowed, undue prejudice to the opposing party by virtue of allowance of the
amendment, futility of amendment, etc. — the leave sought should, as the rules require, be “freely
given.” Of course, the grant or denial of an opportunity to amend is within the discretion of the
District Court, but outright refusal to grant the leave without any justifying reason appearing for
the denial is not an exercise of discretion; it is merely abuse of that discretion and inconsistent
with the spirit of the Federal Rules. Id. at 182, 83 S.Ct. at 230. No apparent or declared reason
for denial of the motion to amend exists in the instant case. Detroit’s assertion that Sweetheart
should have included a count for trademark infringement in its complaint as originally filed is
without merit. Rule 11 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure as it existed at the time
Sweetheart’s complaint was filed on January 28, 1983 provided in pertinent part: Every pleading of a
party represented by an attorney shall be signed by at least one attorney of record in his
individual name, whose address shall be stated ... The signature of an attorney constitutes a
certificate by him that he has read the pleading; that to the best of his knowledge, information,
and belief there is good ground to support it; and that it is not interposed for delay. Clearly,
Sweetheart’s counsel could not in good faith have included in his complaint a count for trademark
infringement before he was aware of evidence to support such a claim. Such conduct would have
violated both the letter and the spirit of Rule 11. Detroit also asserts that Sweetheart could have
moved to amend its complaint earlier because the mark “Banana Boat” appeared on certain documents
submitted previously by Detroit. Detroit fails to cite to any evidence in the record which supports
this contention. Our review of the record reveals only two documents, a blueprint drawing clearly
designed for internal use by Detroit containing the words “Banana Boat Tray,” and a letter to the
secretary of Detroit from a distributor in which the distributor referred to Detroit’s dishes as
large and small “Banana Boat[s].” There was no evidence that this distributor ever used the term
“Banana Boat” in the promotion or sale of Detroit’s dishes. Rather, the evidence shows that soon
after receipt of the letter Detroit’s secretary admonished the distributor not to use the name
“Banana Boat” with reference to Detroit’s products, and that this instruction was heeded. Certainly,
Sweetheart’s knowledge of these documents was insufficient evidence upon which to base a claim for
infringement of its trademark in connection with the sale and distribution of the dishes in
interstate commerce. “Good ground” to support the claim under Rule 11 only came later, when Detroit
produced an invoice containing the words “Banana Boat Trays” less than a week prior to trial.
Finally, the mere fact that the motion to amend was made the day of trial did not unduly prejudice
Detroit so as to require denial of the motion. Absent prejudice to the opposing party, the mere fact
that an amendment is offered late in the case is not enough to bar it. 3 J. Moore, Moore’s Federal
Practice § 15.08[4] (2d ed. 1984); Howey v. United States, 481 F.2d 1187 (9th Cir.1973); Hanson v.
Hunt Oil Company, 398 F.2d 578 (8th Cir.1968). The district court made no finding of prejudice to
Detroit, concluding only that “plaintiff’s motion comes too late.” Moreover, the record fails to
show any basis for finding that the proffered amendment would have unduly prejudiced Detroit under
the circumstances. Sweetheart’s original two counts for false designation of origin and unfair
competition arise out of the sale and distribution by Detroit of plastic dishes having
configurations which Sweetheart asserts are proprietary to it, including two boat-shaped dishes. The
count for trademark infringement in connection with the sale and distribution of these dishes which
Sweetheart sought to add by amendment is grounded on at least one of the same acts by Detroit that
form the basis of the original two counts. Thus, Detroit has been aware since the filing of
Sweetheart’s complaint of the circumstances from which the trademark infringement count arose.
Moreover, Detroit was in possession of the document which forms the basis of Sweetheart’s motion to
amend until six days before the motion was made, and thus cannot be heard to complain of unfair
surprise by the inclusion of the additional count. Under these circumstances, Detroit would not have
suffered undue prejudice from the amendment of the complaint immediately prior to trial. Since
Sweetheart could not have brought a claim for trademark infringement earlier because Detroit did not
produce the evidence of infringement until a few days before trial, and since Detroit would not have
been unduly prejudiced by the amendment, the district court’s refusal to permit Sweetheart to amend
its complaint was an abuse of discretion. Ill In addition, Sweetheart argues that the district court
committed prejudicial error by refusing to admit evidence of remedial actions taken by Sweetheart
against other manufacturers, and then instructing the jury to consider whether Sweetheart, by taking
no action against the third party manufacturers, acquiesced in the manufacture of its dish designs
by others or abandoned its rights. Sweetheart admits that it was permitted to read into the record
part of the Thrope deposition which established that Sweetheart had notified Formfit that it
considered the marketing of boat-shaped dishes by Formfit as an infringement of Sweetheart’s rights.
However, Sweetheart asserts that all of its other efforts to introduce evidence of actions it took
against the other manufacturers of boat-shaped dishes, Douglas Stephens and Van Brode, were “firmly
and emphatically denied by the trial court.” This contention is utterly without support in the
record. The record reveals the trial court also permitted Sweetheart to publish the part of the
Graff deposition showing remedial acts Sweetheart had taken against Douglas Stephens, and to
introduce rebuttal evidence of remedial acts taken by Sweetheart against Van Brode. Thus, even if
the trial court erred in refusing to permit Sweetheart to admit in its rebuttal case evidence of the
remedial acts it took against Douglas Stephens and Formfit, such error was harmless because the
evidence had previously been published to the jury by Sweetheart. However, upon retrial the district
court should allow Sweetheart full opportunity to prove all remedial actions taken against other
manufacturers. IV We also reject Sweetheart’s argument that the trial court’s admission of Detroit’s
evidence of the existence of other manufacturers of similarly designed dishes constituted
prejudicial error. Evidence of the existence of manufacturers other than the defendant has certain
relevance in this false designation of origin and unfair competition case. For example, with
reference to a determination of whether Sweetheart had any proprietary rights in the unregistered
designs of its dishes, evidence of the use of substantially identical designs by others was
admissible as to the issue of whether secondary meaning attached to Sweetheart’s designs. Such
evidence is probative of the extent and nature of exclusivity of use by Sweetheart. See Carter
Wallace, Inc. v. Proctor & Gamble Co., 434 F.2d 794, 802 (9th Cir.1970); Universal City Studios v.
Nintendo Co., 578 F.Supp. 911, 926 (S.D.N.Y.1983); Miller Brewing Co. v. Falstaff Brewing Corp., 503
F.Supp. 896 (D.C.Rhode Island 1980). Thus, the district court did not err in permitting the jury to
consider evidence of the existence of third party manufacturers of substantially similar dishes. V
Related to Sweetheart’s argument that the admission of Detroit’s evidence of other manufacturers was
prejudicial is it’s contention that the trial court committed prejudicial error in instructing the
jury to consider evidence of Sweetheart’s delay in enjoining the other manufacturers in determining
whether Sweetheart acquiesced in the use of the dish designs by others or abandoned its rights in
the dish designs. With respect to Detroit’s defense of es-toppel by acquiescence the trial court
instructed the jury in part: The defendant, thus, alleges that the plaintiff has acquiesced in such
manufacture, sales by the other manufacturers and should now be estopped from asserting its rights,
if any it has, in the design or configuration of its relevant containers against anyone, including
this defendant. If you should find from the preponder-anee of the evidence that others were
manufacturing and selling containers very similar to the relevant containers of the plaintiff for a
long period of time, and that plaintiff was aware of such manufacture and sale, then you must decide
whether by taking no action against other manufacturers the plaintiff tes, agreed or acquiesced that
the others can manufacture its very similar products. If you so decide, then the plaintiff may not
now assert its rights against the defendant. As distinguished from laches, acquiescence constitutes
a ground for denial of relief only upon a finding of conduct on the plaintiff’s part that amounted
to an assurance to the defendant, express or implied, that the plaintiff would not assert his
trademark rights against the defendant, Carl Zeiss Stiftung v. Veb Carl Zeiss Jena, 433 F.2d 686,
704 (2nd Cir.1970), cert. denied 403 U.S. 905, 91 S.Ct. 2205, 29 L.Ed.2d 680 (1971); Exxon Corp. v.
Humble Exploration Co., Inc., 524 F.Supp. 450, 467 (N.D.Tex.1981), aff'd in part, rev’d and remanded
in part, 695 F.2d 96 (5th Cir.1983). Acquiescence may be inferred from the trademark owner’s
affirmative conduct toward the defendant. For example, in Ambrosia Chocolate Co. v. Ambrosia Cake
Bakery, 165 F.2d 693 (4th Cir.1947), cert. denied 333 U.S. 882, 68 S.Ct. 914, 92 L.Ed. 1157 (1948),
not only was the plaintiff aware that the defendant was using the plaintiff’s registered trademark
“Ambrosia” for eight years but also the plaintiff attempted to sell ingredients to the defendant to
be used in making “Ambrosia” cakes to be marketed under that name. The court found this to be
“active encouragement” by the plaintiff to induce the defendant to sell its cakes under the name
“Ambrosia”, and injunctive relief was denied. Estoppel by acquiescence focuses on a plaintiffs acts
toward the defendant, not toward other manufacturers, See, e.g., id. Although Sweetheart’s delay in
enjoining Detroit may be relevant to the question of whether Sweetheart acquiesced in Detroit’s
manufacture of the dishes in question, Sweetheart’s delay in prosecuting infringers other than
Detroit has no rele-vanee to the defense of estoppel by acquiescence. While abandonment results in a
loss of rights as against the whole world, laches or acquiescence is a personal defense which merely
results in a loss of rights as against one defendant. 2 J.T. McCarthy, Trademarks and Unfair
Competition § 31:14 at 587 (2d ed. 1984). ThuS) assuming that Sweetheart estab-lighed it had
proprietary rights in its unregistered dish designs, the fact that Sweetheart may have delayed in
enjoining other manufacturers from using the dish designs would not amount to an assurance to
Detroit that Sweetheart would not assert its trademark rights against Detroit. The trial court’s
instruction that the jury should consider the acts of Sweetheart toward third party manufacturers of
similar designs rather than the acts of Sweetheart toward Detroit in determining estoppel by
acquiescence was therefore erroneous. ,. . ,. .. rffms. whether evide"ce of S7ethearts delfy “ ^mmg
other manufacturers is relevant to a determma-tlon of the of abandonment. With resPect to the
evidence of Sweetheart s de-la^ m enjoining other manufacturers, the court mstracted the jury on
abandonment: If y°u should find from the preponderance of the evidence that the plaintiff knowingly
permitted other manufacturers to use the designs without any control, then you would find that
plaintiff had abandoned or lost such rights, There has been little uniformity among the courts as to
the impact of a plaintiff’s failure to sue other infringers on the defense of abandonment. The line
of cases relied on by Sweetheart states that evidence of a plaintiff’s failure to sue other
infringers is totally irrelevant in an unfair competition case because “it is no excuse for [a
defendant] to say that others have been guilty of the same wrong.” National Lead Company v. Wolfe,
223 F.2d 195, 204 (9th Cir.1955); United States Jaycees v. San Francisco Jr. Chamber of Commerce,
354 F.Supp. 61, 73 (N.D.Cal.1972), aff'd 513 F.2d 1226 (9th Cir.1975) (and cases cited therein).
Although this theory is appealing because no one should be exculpated from his own wrongful conduct
merely because others are also guilty, the view “assumes that the case of infringement has already
been proven and that failure to prosecute, and its possible impact on customer perception, is
irrelevant to the issue of likelihood of confusion.” 1 J.T. McCarthy, Trademarks and Unfair
Competition § 17:5 at 778 (2d ed. 1984). As discussed previously, the evidence of Sweetheart’s delay
or failure to enjoin other manufacturers is not totally irrelevant in this case where Sweetheart has
the burden of proving secondary meaning.


