**gold_text:**
“In Gutierrez v. Waterman Steamship Corp., 1963, 373 U.S. 206, 83 S.Ct. 1185, 10 L.Ed.2d 297, 1963
A.M.C. 1649, the Supreme Court concluded that ‘things about a ship, whether the hull, the decks, the
machinery, the tools furnished, the stowage, or the cargo containers, must be reasonably fit for the
purpose for which they are to be used.’ Id. at 213, 83 S.Ct. at 1190, 10 L.Ed.2d at 303. More
recently, in Usner v. Luckenbach, 1971, 400 U.S. 494, 91 S.Ct. 514, 27 L.Ed.2d 562, 1971 A.M.C. 277,
the Supreme Court said that: ‘A vessel’s condition of unseaworthiness might arise from any number of
circumstances. Her gear might be defective, her appurtenances might be in disrepair, her crew unfit.
The number of men assigned to perform a shipboard task might be insufficient. The method of loading
her cargo, or the manner of its stowage, might be improper. For any of these reasons, or others, a
vessel might not be reasonably fit for her intended service.’ Id. at 499, 91 S.Ct. at 517-18, 27
L.Ed.2d at 562.”

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
In the context of the unseaworthiness doctrine, it is crucial to examine the provisions of both the
bareboat charter and the time charter agreements. As previously established, the bareboat charter
transferred full control and possession to Chaplin, making Chaplin the owner pro hoc vice and
therefore responsible for the vessel’s seaworthiness at the time of the incident. Following the
principles laid out in Mitchell v. Trawler Racer, Inc., 362 U.S. 539, and Morales v. City of
Galveston, 370 U.S. 165, a ship’s gear, appurtenances, and manner of stowage must be reasonably fit
for their intended purpose.  In addressing Plaintiff's allegations, it must be noted that the
condition leading to the Plaintiff's injury must be attributable to the vessel's unseaworthy state
rather than an isolated act of negligence by fellow crew members. As highlighted in 400 U.S. 494, an
individual act of negligence does not render a vessel unseaworthy. Therefore, any claim of
unseaworthiness must relate to inherent vessel deficiencies existing at the time of the charter’s
inception or subsequently arising due to the charterer’s conduct.  With regards to the incineration
barrel, the Plaintiff has not provided sufficient evidence to show that the vessel’s condition per
373 U.S. 206 was inherently unseaworthy at the time of the accident. The burn barrel itself does not
appear to constitute an unseaworthy condition under the standards applied in earlier cases.  Based
on the evidence and the precedents discussed, the movement for summary judgment by Chaplin on the
grounds of unseaworthiness is not substantiated. Consequently, the motion for summary judgment by
Mon River on grounds of the vessel's alleged unseaworthiness is GRANTED.  IV.  In sum, the bareboat
charter agreement effectively transferred ownership responsibilities to Chaplin, and no substantial
evidence indicates unseaworthiness from Mon River’s side that would breach the express warranty
concerning seaworthiness at delivery. Therefore, the court GRANTS the summary judgment for Mon River
and DENIES Plaintiff's claim against Chaplin on the grounds presented.  It is so ordered.


**Label:** 2

***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
 The court's decision to grant summary judgment to Mon River Towing, Inc. is correct. As stated in
373 U.S. 206, a vessel's condition of unseaworthiness might arise from any number of circumstances,
including defects in the vessel's gear, appurtenances, or crew. However, in this case, the evidence
presented does not show that the vessel was unseaworthy at the time of the incident.  The plaintiff
argues that the vessel was not properly maintained and that the crew was negligent, but these claims
are not supported by the evidence. The court has already granted summary judgment to Mon River on
the grounds that it transferred possession, control, and command of the vessel to Chaplin Marine
Transport, Inc. under a bareboat charter agreement.  As stated in 400 U.S. 494, a bareboat charter
agreement transfers all of the rights and responsibilities of ownership to the charterer. In this
case, Chaplin Marine Transport, Inc. was the bareboat charterer and pro hac vice owner of the
vessel, and it was responsible for the vessel's seaworthiness at the time of the incident.  The
plaintiff has failed to present evidence that the vessel was unseaworthy or that Chaplin Marine
Transport, Inc. was negligent. Therefore, the court's decision to grant summary judgment to Mon
River Towing, Inc. is correct.


**Label:** 2

***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-finetuned:***
  In the case of Seas Shipping Co. v. Sieracki, 328 U.S. 85, 66 S.Ct. 872, 90 L.Ed. 1099 (1946), the
Supreme Court stated, “The vessel’s condition of unseaworthiness might arise from any number of
circumstances. Her gear might be defective, her appurtenances in disrepair, her crew unfit. The
number of men assigned to perform a shipboard task might be insufficient. The method of loading her
cargo, or the manner of its stowage, might be improper. For any of these reasons, or others, a
vessel might not be reasonably fit for her intended service.” 328 U.S. at 90, 66 S.Ct. 872, at 875,
90 L.Ed. at 1103. See also, e.g., Pope & Talbot, Inc. v. Cordray, 258 F.2d 214, 218 (9th Cir.1958),
cert. denied, 359 U.S. 927, 79 S.Ct. 619, 3 L.Ed.2d 649 (1959); Morales v. City of Galveston, 370
U.S. 165, 169, 172 (dissenting opinion), 82 S.Ct. 1337, 1340, 1342, 8 L.Ed.2d 784 (1962); Trawler
Racer, Inc. v. Mitchell, 362 U.S. 539, 550, 80 S.Ct. 906, 914, 4 L.Ed.2d 1038 (1960); Robillard v.
A. L. Burbank & Co., 186 F.Supp. 193, 195 (S.D.N.Y.1960); see also, e.g., Strika v. Netherlands
Ministry of Traffic, 185 F.2d 555, 557 (2d Cir.1950).” See also, e.g., Vlachos v. M/V Proso, 637
F.Supp. 1354, 1364 n. 14 (D.Md.1986); Roby v. Hyundai Merchant Marine, 700 F.Supp. 316, 320-21
(E.D.La.1988). Continue reading. B. Plaintiff has failed to present evidence the vessel was
unseaworthy or that Chap


**Label:** 1, 2, 3

**citations:** ['373 U.S. 206', '400 U.S. 494']

***short_citations_0:*** 373 U.S. 206

which is in essence that things about a ship, whether the hull, the decks, the machinery, the tools furnished, the stowage, or the cargo containers, must be reasonably fit for the purpose for which they are to be used. See Mitchell v. Trawler Racer, Inc., 362 U. S. 539, 550; Morales v. City of Galveston, 370 U. S. 165, 169, 172 (dissenting opinion). A ship that leaks is unseaworthy; so is a cargo container that leaks. When the shipowner accepts cargo in a faulty container or allows the container to become faulty, he assumes the responsibility for injury that this may cause to seamen or their substitutes on or about the ship. Beans belong inside their containers, and anyone should know, as the trial court found, that serious injury may result if they get out of their containers and get underfoot. These bean bags were unfit and thus unseaworthy. The second question is one of first impression in this Court, although other federal courts have already recognized that the case law compels this conclusion. Strika v. Netherlands Ministry of Traffic, 185 F. 2d 555 (C. A. 2d Cir.); Robillard v. A. L. Burbank & Co., 186 F. Supp. 193 (S. D. N. Y.); see Pope & Talbot, Inc., v. Cordray, 258 F. 2d 214, 218 (C. A. 9th Cir.). In Strika, while the longshoreman was working on the dock, use of an improper wire cable caused a hatch cover to fall on him. Building on such cases as O’Donnell v.

***short_citations_1:*** 400 U.S. 494

our cases have held that the scope of unseaworthiness is by no means so limited. A vessel’s condition of unseaworthiness might arise from any number of circumstances. Her gear might be defective, her appurtenances in disrepair, her crew unfit. The number of men assigned to perform a shipboard task might be insufficient. The method of loading her cargo, or the manner of its stowage, might be improper. For any of these reasons, or others, a vessel might not be reasonably fit for her intended service. What caused the petitioner’s injuries in the present case, however, was not the condition of the ship, her appurtenances, her cargo, or her crew, but the isolated, personal negligent act of the petitioner’s fellow longshoreman. To hold that this individual act of negligence rendered the ship unseaworthy would be' to subvert the fundamental distinction between unseaworthiness and negligence that we have so painstakingly and repeatedly emphasized in our decisions. In Trawler Racer, supra, there existed a condition of unseaworthiness,, and we held it was error to require a finding of negligent conduct in order to hold the shipowner liable. The case before us-presents the other side of the same coin. For it would be equally erroneous here, where no condition of unseaworthiness existed, to hold the shipowner liable for a third party’s single and wholly unforeseeable act of negligence. The judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed. It is so ordered.' 28 U. S. C. § 1292 (b) provides as follows: Compare Candiano v.

**prev_text:**
MEMORANDUM OPINION AND ORDER HADEN, Chief Judge. Pending is the motion for summary judgment filed by
Defendants Chaplin Marine Transport, Inc. (“Chaplin”) and Mon River Towing, Inc. (“Mon River”).
Plaintiff has responded and Defendants have replied. This issue is ripe for adjudication. Plaintiff
initiated this action on May 28, 1993. He filed an amended complaint on December 7,1994. Plaintiff
contends he was injured while working on the MTV Lillian G, a tow boat, on November 25,1992. The
Lillian G is owned by Mon River, but was being operated pursuant to a bareboat, or demise charter by
Chaplin. In turn, Chaplin was operating the boat pursuant to a purported time charter between it and
Mon River. Plaintiff contends he was following the common practice of his employer, Chaplin, when he
was seriously burned as he attempted to incinerate garbage in a barrel located on the deck of the
vessel. He asserts Mon River was aware of the presence and use of the barrel to burn garbage at the
time of the incident. Plaintiff asserts causes of action based upon this Court’s admiralty
jurisdiction and the Jones Act, 46 U.S.C.App. § 688. I. Defendants contend they are entitled to
summary judgment. The standard used to determine whether a motion for summary judgment should be
granted or denied is stated by our Court of Appeals as follows: “A moving party is entitled to
summary judgment ‘if the pleading, depositions, answers to interrogatories, and admissions on file,
together with the affidavits, if any, show that there is no genuine issue as to material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’ Fed R.Civ.Pro. 56(c). See
Charbonnages de France v. Smith, 597 F.2d 406 (4th Cir.1979). “A genuine issue of material fact
exists ‘if the evidence is such that a reasonable jury could return a verdict for the nonmov-ing
party.’ Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc., 477 U.S. 242, 248, 106 S.Ct. 2505, 2510, 91 L.Ed.2d 202
(1986). In considering a motion for summary judgement, the court is required to view the facts and
draw reasonable inferences in a light most favorable to the nonmoving party. Id. at 255, 106 S.Ct.
at 2513-14. The plaintiff is entitled to have the credibility of all his evidence presumed. Miller
v. Leathers, 913 F.2d 1085, 1087 (4th Cir.1990), cert. denied, 498 U.S. 1109, 111 S.Ct. 1018, 112
L.Ed.2d 1100 (1991). The party seeking summary judgment has the initial burden to show absence of
evidence to support the nonmoving party’s case. Celotex Corp. v. Catrett, 477 U.S. 317, 325, 106
S.Ct. 2548, 2553-54, 91 L.Ed.2d 265 (1986). The opposing party must demonstrate that a triable issue
of fact exists; he may not rest upon mere allegations or denials. Anderson, 477 U.S. at 248, 106
S.Ct. at 2510. A mere scintilla of evidence supporting the ease is insufficient. Id.” Shaw v.
Stroud, 13 F.3d 791, 798 (4th Cir.), cert. denied, — U.S. -, 115 S.Ct. 67, 130 L.Ed.2d 24, and cert.
denied, — U.S. -, 115 S.Ct. 68, 130 L.Ed.2d 24 (1994). Accord, McCoy v. United Postal Service, 890
F.Supp. 529, 531 n. 3 (S.D.W.Va.1995) (Haden, C.J.); Browning v. Snead, 886 F.Supp. 547, 549-50
(S.D.W.Va.1995) (Haden, C.J.). II. Mon River asserts it is not liable for any negligence occurring
on or unseaworthiness of the Lillian G. It relies on the bareboat charter agreement between it and
Chaplin. It claims the bareboat charter turns exclusive control, operation and navigation of the
vessel over to Chaplin, thus relieving it of responsibility for Plaintiffs injuries. For the reasons
that follow the Court agrees. The owner of a vessel is normally liable for injuries caused by the
vessel’s un seaworthiness. McAleer v. Smith, 57 F.3d 109, 111-12 (1st Cir.1995), citing, Seas
Shipping Co. v. Sieracki, 328 U.S. 85, 90, 66 S.Ct. 872, 875, 90 L.Ed. 1099 (1946) (citing, The
Osceola, 189 U.S. 158, 23 S.Ct. 483, 47 L.Ed. 760 (1903)); Moore v. Phillips Petroleum Co., 912 F.2d
789, 792 (5th Cir.1990) (“The vessel owner remains responsible for the seaworthiness of the
vessel[.]”). Nonetheless, an owner may turn the exclusive possession, control and navigation over to
another party through a bare-boat, or demise charter. A bareboat charter is “created when ‘the owner
of the vessel .-.. completely and exclusively relinquishes] possession, command, and navigation
thereof to the demisee. [They are] therefore tantamount to, though just short of, an outright
transfer of ownership. However, anything short of such a complete transfer is a time or voyage
charter party or not a charter party at all.’ ” McAleer v. Smith, supra, 57 F.3d at 113, citing,
Guzman v. Pichirilo, 369 U.S. 698, 699-700, 82 S.Ct. 1095, 1096, 8 L.Ed.2d 205 (1962) (internal
quotation and citation omitted). See Wheatley v. Gladden, 660 F.2d 1024, 1026 (4th Cir.1981) (“Under
a bareboat charter the charterer assumes all the obligations of ownership, including those of the
employer and crew. United States v. W.M. Webb, Inc., [397 U.S. 179, 90 S.Ct. 850, 25 L.Ed.2d 207
(1970) ]. The test for establishing a bareboat charter is one of control — has the owner completely
relinquished possession and command of the boat.”); Carolina Seafoods, Inc. v. United States, 581
F.2d 1098, 1100 (4th Cir.1978). The charterer under a bareboat or demise charter thus stands in the
shoes of the owner and becomes the owner pro hoc vice. Because the bareboat charterer stands in the
shoes of the owner, the bareboat charterer assumes the duties and responsibilities appurtenant to
ownership, and the owner is relieved of the same. As stated recently in Dow Chemical Co. v. Texaco
Refining and Marketing, Inc., 887 F.Supp. 853, 863, (E.D.Va.1995): “Under a bareboat or demise
charter, full possession and control of the chartered vessel is turned over to the charterer. Reed
v. S.S. Yaka, 373 U.S. 410, 412, 83 S.Ct. 1349, 1351, 10 L.Ed.2d 448 (1963) (‘It has long been
recognized in the law of admiralty that for many, if not most purposes the bareboat charterer is to
be treated as the owner, generally called the owner pro hoc vice.’); Alex L. Parks & Edward V.
Cattel, Jr., The Law of Tug, Tow & Pilotage 875 (3d ed.1994). The United States Court of Appeals for
the Fourth Circuit has stated: This rule recognizes that when the owner of the vessel enters into a
demise charter, he surrenders all possession and control of the vessel to the charterer. Since he no
longer has the right to control the use of the vessel, he is no longer charged with the duties and
liabilities of its ownership. Conversely, the demise charterer ‘becomes subject to the duties and
responsibilities of ownership.’ Kerr-McGee Corp. v. Law, 479 F.2d 61, 63 (4th Cir.1973) (quoting
Leary v. United States, 81 U.S. (14 Wall) 607, 610, 20 L.Ed. 756 (1872)). As a bareboat charterer,
the charterer is held to be a bailee of the vessel. Richmond Sand & Gravel Corp. v. Tidewater
Constr. Corp., 170 F.2d 392, 393 (4th Cir.1948); 2b Benedict on Admiralty § 51, at 3-3 (1995).” See
Forrester v. Ocean Marine Indem. Co., 11 F.3d 1213, 1215 (5th Cir.1993) (“In a demise charter, the
vessel owner transfers full possession and control to the charterer, who in turn furnishes the crew
and maintenance for the vessel (thus the term ‘bare-boat’).”). And as stated in Wolsiffer v.
Atlantis Submarines, Inc., 848 F.Supp. 1489, 1494 (D.Haw.1994): “In order for the agreement to be
considered a demise charter, complete transfer of possession, command, and navigation of the vessel
from the owner to the charterer is necessary. Guzman v. Pichirilo, 369 U.S. 698, 700, 82 S.Ct. 1095,
1096-97, 8 L.Ed.2d 205 (1962); Gaspard v. Diamond M. Drilling Co., 593 F.2d 605, 606 (5th Cir.1979).
‘Anything short of ... a complete transfer is a time or voyage charter party or not a charter party
at all.’ Guzman, 369 U.S. at 700, 82 S.Ct. at 1096. Courts are reluctant to find a demise char ter
when the dealings between the parties are consistent with any lesser relationship.” The owner of a
vessel impliedly warrants its seaworthiness to the point of delivery to the bareboat charterer.
Kerr-McGee Corp. v. Law, 479 F.2d 61 (4th Cir.1973); Dow Chemical Co. v. Texaco Refining and
Marketing, Inc., 887 F.Supp. at 864, citing, Dempsey v. Downing, 11 F.2d 15, 17 (4th Cir.1926); In
the Matter of D & H Corp., 1994 WL 574143, *1 (E.D.Va.1993); Cos v. French-Polish Shipping Co., 1986
WL 13361, *1 (D.Md.1986); Interocean Shipping Co. v. M/V Lygaria, 512 F.Supp. 960 (D.Md.1981). If
the vessel was unseaworthy when delivered, the owner is liable for injuries caused by such
unseaworthiness notwithstanding the existence of the bareboat charter. If the vessel is seaworthy
upon delivery, the bareboat charterer then assumes the responsibilities of the owner for liability
for injuries thereafter caused by the unseaworthiness of the vessel. McAleer v. Smith, supra, 57
F.3d at 112 (“In general, if there is an owner pro hac vice, the title owner will be absolved of
personal liability (except for defective conditions that existed before the owner pro hac vice took
control of the vessel).”); Forrester v. Ocean Marine Indem. Co., 11 F.3d at 1215 (“The demise
charterer is ... responsible in personam for the negligence of the crew and the unseaworthiness of
the vessel.”); Wolsiffer v. Atlantis Submarines, Inc., 848 F.Supp. at 1494 (“The remedy of
unseaworthiness for an injured seaman applies in rem against the vessel and in personam against
either the title owner of the vessel ..., or the owner pro hac vice under a demise charter.”
(citation omitted).). Plaintiff acknowledges the existence of the bareboat charter agreement and
does not dispute the bareboat agreement has the effect of giving Chaplin the status of owner pro hac
vice. Plaintiff argues Mon River is liable for the alleged unseaworthiness of the vessel, however,
by virtue of the “charter party” agreement executed between Chaplin and Mon River the same day the
bareboat charter agreement was executed. Plaintiff argues that pursuant to the charter party
agreement, Mon River controlled Chaplin and the vessel, and is thus liable for its alleged
unseaworthiness. Defendants, on the other hand, contend the agreement was a “time charter” agreement
that left control and possession of the vessel solely in the hands of Chaplin, the pro hac vice
owner under the bareboat agreement. The second agreement entered into by the parties is entitled
“Charter Party.” In the first paragraph of the agreement, the contract purports to be a “Time
Charter.” Plaintiff acknowledges the time charter did not place any responsibility upon Mon River to
furnish the crew or man the vessel. Instead, he relies only on paragraph six of the agreement, which
states: “6. REPORTS: Chaplin shall require that the master of the towboat report daily by radio the
position of the tow and any other information that it is requested by [Mon River] regarding the
status of the barges that it has or has had in tow. Chaplin shall require that the master of the
towboat report weekly by radio the engine hours of the two main engines and the two generator
engines on the boat. Chaplin shall furnish to Mon River copies of all purchases of fuel oil,
lubricating oil and hydraulic oil which are purchased for consumption aboard the towboat M/V Lillian
G. Mon River Towing will pay said vendors of such oils directly.” Plaintiff suggests the foregoing,
combined with his contention that the vessel frequently refueled and underwent engine maintenance at
a location operated by Mon River, is enough to create a genuine issue of material fact regarding the
control of the vessel for liability purposes. The Court disagrees. In contrast to a bareboat
charter, a time charter does not vest operational control in the time charterer. Instead, the time
charterer directs the destinations of the vessel without assuming any responsibility for the actual
operation of the ship. Therefore, the time charterer is not held hable for the negligence of the
crew or the unseaworthiness of the vessel. As stated by the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit:
“A time charter only entitles the charterer to the use of the vessel for a specified time. The
vessel owner retains primary possession and control. Although a time charterer does direct the
destinations of the vessel, he does not control the details of vessel operation required to reach
those destinations. As a non-demise charterer, the time charterer is thus not liable for claims of
negligence of the crew or for the unseaworthiness of the vessel. But the time charterer may be
liable in that capacity for his own negligence.” (footnotes omitted and emphasis added). Forrester
v. Ocean Marine Indem. Co., 11 F.3d at 1215. In Moore v. Phillips Petroleum Co., 912 F.2d at 791-92,
the Court distinguished the responsibilities of time charterers from those of owners as follows:
“Under the traditional time-charter agreement, the time charterer directs the vessel’s commercial
activities. It may designate the cargo to be carried and determine the vessel’s routes and
destinations. * * * The time charterer’s duties are different from the vessel owner’s duties. The
vessel owner remains responsible for the seaworthiness of the vessel, e.g., Nichimen Co. v. M.V.
Farland, 462 F.2d 319, 331 (2nd Cir.1972), dangerous conditions on board, e.g., Migut v. Hyman-
Michaels Co., 571 F.2d 352, 356 (6th Cir.1978), navigational errors by the pilot and negligence by
the crew, e.g., Delta Transload, Inc. v. MV Navios Commander, 818 F.2d 445, 451 (5th Cir.1987), and
a reasonably safe means of access for those boarding or leaving the vessel, see, e.g., Tittle v.
Aldacosta, 544 F.2d 752, 755 (5th Cir.1977) [.]” See Wolsiffer v. Atlantis Submarines, Inc., 848
F.Supp. at 1494; Roby v. Hyundai Merchant Marine, 700 F.Supp. 316, 320-21 (E.D.La.1988); Vlachos v.
M/V Proso, 637 F.Supp. 1354, 1364 n. 14 (D.Md.1986). As noted above, the Plaintiff acknowledges the
delegation of responsibilities pursuant to the bareboat charter. Under said agreement, Mon River
transferred possession, control and command of the Lillian G to Chaplin. Chaplin thus became the pro
hoc vice owner of the vessel, legally responsible for the unseaworthiness of the vessel after the
date of transfer. Chaplin, in turn, executed a purported time charter agreement with Mon River.
Although Plaintiff argues the time charter had the effect of a demise charter transferring control
over the vessel back to Mon River, the Court disagrees. In essence, it appears Plaintiff is arguing
Chaplin, after becoming the bareboat charterer and pro hac vice owner, executed a bareboat charter
back to Mon River, making Mon River both paper owner and pro hac vice owner of the vessel. The Court
notes the following: first, Plaintiff does not dispute Chaplin was a bareboat charterer under the
first agreement, and therefore pro hac vice owner of the vessel; second, in regard to the second
agreement between Chaplin and Mon River a time charter, rather than a bareboat charter, is presumed
to exist as a matter of law and such presumption may be overcome only by specific facts showing a
demise charter existed, Wolsijfer, supra, 848 F.Supp. at 1494, citing Gaspard v. Diamond M. Drilling
Co., 593 F.2d 605, 607 (5th Cir.1979); third, the charter is an unrebutted time charter. Plaintiff
has been unable to present specific facts showing a demise charter was executed between Chaplin and
Mon River after Mon River demised the vessel to Chaplin. The Court thus concludes the time charter
is precisely what it purports to be. Therefore, because Chaplin, the pro hac vice owner of the boat,
was responsible for the seaworthiness of the vessel on the date of the Plaintiff’s injury, the Court
GRANTS Mon River’s motion for summary judgment on the unseaworthiness claim against it. III. Chaplin
contends it is entitled to summary judgment because Plaintiff failed to produce evidence the vessel
was unseaworthy or that Chaplin was negligent. Plaintiff has attached several portions of
depositions he asserts create a question of material fact regarding the seaworthiness of the Lillian
G at the time of the incident and of Chaplin’s negligence. Claims of negligence under the Jones Act
or of unseaworthiness subject the plaintiff to a light burden of proof. As stated by the Court of
Appeals in Estate of Larkins v. Farrell Lines, Inc., 806 F.2d 510, 512 (4th Cir.1986), cert. denied,
481 U.S. 1037, 107 S.Ct. 1973, 95 L.Ed.2d 814 (1987): “Under the Jones Act, the standard of recovery
has not been a strict one, and seamen have been afforded the ‘judicially developed doctrine of
liability granted to railroad workers by the FELA,’ Kernan v. American Dredging Co., 355 U.S. 426,
439, 78 S.Ct. 394, 401, 2 L.Ed.2d 382 (1958), including its light burden of proof on negligence and
causation. While the standard of causation for unseaworthiness is ‘more demanding,’ Chisholm v.
Sabine Towing and Transportation Co., 679 F.2d 60, 62 (5th Cir.1982), the plaintiff’s burden in
either case has been characterized as light. Vallot v. Central Gulf Lines, 641 F.2d 347, 350 (5th
Cir.1981). The jury’s role, moreover, has been an important one in such cases, and doubts have been
resolved in favor of submission.” A. A comprehensive but concise overview of an owner’s
responsibility for a vessel’s seaworthiness was provided in Drachenberg v. Canal Barge Co., Inc.,
571 F.2d 912, 918 (5th Cir.1978): “The owner of the vessel has a duty to provide a vessel that is
reasonably fit for its intended use. This duty to provide a seaworthy vessel requires that the
vessel, its gear, appurtenances, and operation must be reasonably safe. Seas Shipping Co. v.
Sieracki 1946, 328 U.S. 85, 66 S.Ct. 872, 90 L.Ed. 1099, 1946 A.M.C. 698. ‘That (a vessel) owner is
liable to indemnify a seaman for an injury caused by the unseaworthiness of the vessel or its
appurtenant appliances and equipment has been settled law in this country ever since The Osceola,
189 U.S. 158, 23 S.Ct. 483, 47 L.Ed. 760; Mahnich v. Southern S.S. Co., 321 U.S. 96, 99, 64 S.Ct.
455, [457] 88 L.Ed. 561, 564, [ (1944) ] and authorities cited.’ Id. at 90, 66 S.Ct. 872, at 875, 90
L.Ed. at 1103.


