**gold_text:**
Turning now to the question of the validity of claim 11, the Anderson improvement patent No.
2,787,314 (hereinafter referred to as Anderson ’314), described in detail in the district court’s
findings of fact, supra, we feel that its invalidity follows a fortiori from what has been said
above. Having concluded that the Anderson ’125 patent is invalid and that its disclosure thus lies
in the public domain, we must leave room for mechanical improvements thereto which increase its
efficiency, economy of operation and usefulness; otherwise, we make an empty promise. The method and
apparatus claimed by claim 11 of Anderson ’314 “would have been obvious at the time the invention
was made to a person having ordinary skill in the art * * ” (35 U.S.C.A. § 103) upon perceiving that
the strand roving fell to the ground when the operator stopped the machine. “[I]t is not invention
to produce a device which is within the realm of performance of a skilled mechanic in the ordinary
progress of producing a device to effectuate a given result.” Application of Demarche, 219 F.2d 952,
955, 42 CCPA 793 (Court of Customs and Patent Appeals, 1955). Again, our conclusions in this regard
are influenced by the fact that so little time elapsed between the introduction of roving in strands
and the application for Anderson’s main patent. Compare Forestek Plating & Mfg. Co. v. Knapp-Monarch
Co., 106 F.2d 554, 557 (6 Cir. 1939) (validity of improvement patent upheld in light of prior,
repeated unsuccessful efforts).

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
 Furthermore, the claim of non-invention is supported by prior case law which emphasizes the
necessity for innovative contribution beyond mere aggregation of pre-existing elements. In reference
case 219 F.2d 952, the court determined that a patent merely combining old elements without
producing a new function or result was not inventive. Similarly, reference case 106 F.2d 554
reinforces this stance by negating claims that don't advance the existing technical field in a
substantive way.  In the present case, Anderson '125's integration of a rotary cutter with spray
guns to simultaneously deposit fiberglass and resin fails to constitute a novel invention as defined
in these precedents. The combination of these elements, while potentially convenient, does not
produce any unforeseen or novel functional results, reflecting the lessons from 219 F.2d 952 and 106
F.2d 554. Thus, the cumulative effect of prior art decisively points to the conclusion that the
Anderson '125 patent lacks the necessary inventive step for patentability.


**Label:** 3

***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
 In the context of patent infringement, the concept of obviousness is crucial in determining the
validity of a patent. The court needs to consider whether a person of ordinary skill in the field
would have arrived at the claimed invention without resorting to inventive ingenuity. In the case of
Anderson's patents, the court found that the claimed invention was obvious and did not meet the
requirements of patentability.  In the reference case 219 F.2d 952, the court held that the patent
in question did not meet the requirements of patentability because it was obvious to a person of
ordinary skill in the field. Similarly, in the reference case 106 F.2d 554, the court found that the
claimed invention was obvious and did not meet the requirements of patentability.  In the case of
Anderson's patents, the court found that the claimed invention was obvious because it was a
combination of old elements that were well-known in the field. The court noted that the prior art
references, such as the Thompson and Lampe patents, showed that the simultaneous deposition of
fiberglass with resin binder was already known. The court also noted that the use of a chopper
between two nozzles emitting converging sprays of liquid was also known in the prior art.
Furthermore, the court found that the claimed invention did not have any unusual or surprising
consequences from the unification of the elements. The court noted that the materials used in the
prior art references did not identically correspond to their counterparts in the field of reinforced
plastics, but the court still found that the prior art references were relevant to the issue of
obviousness.  In conclusion, the court's decision in the case of Anderson's patents was influenced
by the relative youth of the fiberglass industry and the fact that fiberglass roving in strands did
not become available for experiment until approximately 1950. The court's finding of obviousness was
based on the combination of old elements that were well-known in the field, and the court did not
find any unusual or surprising consequences from the unification of the elements.


**Label:** 2

***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-finetuned:***
  The Lebocey patent, 219 F.2d 952 (C.C.A. 7, 1955), illustrates the importance of the mechanical
step in patentability, even in the area of reinforced plastics. In Lebocey, the court held that a
device for disengaging the spindles of winders, which included a spring-loaded mechanism, was
invalid under 35 U.S.C.A. § 103, as it was obvious to one skilled in the art. In the instant case,
we are not concerned with a mechanical step in the same sense, but the principle is the same. In
another case, Lebocey v. Cannon, 219 F.2d 952, 955 (C.C.A. 7, 1955), the court held that a winding
machine which stopped on increase in tension of the thread was invalid under 35 U.S.C.A. § 103, as
it was obvious to one skilled in the art. Similarly, in the instant case, the district court
correctly concluded that the Anderson ’125 combination was invalid under 35 U.S.C.A. § 103, as it
was obvious to one skilled in the art. Canadian Ingersoll-Rand Co. v. Peterson Prods. of San Mateo,
223 F.Supp. 803, 814 (N.D.Calif.1963). The court in that case correctly distinguished between the
novelty of the individual elements of the combination and the novelty of the combination itself. In
the instant case, we are concerned with the novelty of the combination itself, and we find it
lacking. The case of In re Peterson, 106 F.2d 554 (C.C.P.A. 1940), illustrates the importance of the
mechanical step in patentability, even in the area of reinforced plastics. In Peterson, the court
held that a device for making reinforced plastic articles, which included a mechanical step, was
invalid under 35 U.S.C.A. § 103, as it was obvious to one skilled in the art. In the instant case,
we are not concerned with a mechanical step in the same sense, but the principle is the same. * * *
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
* * * * * * * * * *


**Label:** 
3, 1

**citations:** ['219 F.2d 952', '219 F.2d 952', '106 F.2d 554']

***short_citations_0:*** 219 F.2d 952

.

***short_citations_1:*** 219 F.2d 952

winding machines which stops the machine when the tension of the yarn being wound exceeds a predetermined amount. The portion of this patent which is pertinent to the claims under consideration shows three arms fixedly mounted perpendicularly to the axis of a shaft which is spring biased in a predetermined position. Two of these arms have a roller affixed to their ends. The yarn passes under one of the rollers and over another of the rollers. When the tension in the yam exceeds :a predetermined amount, the arms are .caused to move against the bias of the spring. This, in turn, causes rotation of the shaft to which the arms are affixed. The third of these arms is thereby also caused to move. This third arm is mechanically linked to braking mechanism which stops the machine under the foregoing described conditions of increased tension in the yarn. It is to be noted, however, that while the Cannon stopping mechanism stops the winding machine on increase in tension of the thread, appellant’s stopping mechanism stops the winding machine on decrease in tension of the thread, or breakage thereof. The Lebocey patent discloses a device for disengaging the spindles of winders. Two modifications are shown in the patent. The first modification shows a winding machine in which an arm is supported by a portion of the thread being wound, this portion extending between the supply reel and take-up reel. When the thread breaks (or when the tension thereof decreases), the arm drops

***short_citations_2:*** 106 F.2d 554

supporting surface for the plate, and means for connecting said plate with an electrical appliance casing to provide a unitary structure.

**prev_text:**
TUTTLE, Chief Judge. This appeal is from judgment for plaintiff-appellee in a patent infringement
suit, Ibis Enterprises, Ltd. v. Spray-Bilt, Inc., 220 F.Supp. 65 (S.D. Fla.1963). We can best state
the essential facts of the case by quoting certain of the trial court’s findings of fact as follows:
1. Parties Plaintiff Ibis Enterprises, Limited, is a corporation of Bermuda. Plaintiff Rand
Development Corporation is a corporation of Ohio and has a principal place of business at Cleveland,
Ohio. Defendant Spray-Bilt, Inc., is a corporation of Florida and has a principal place of business
at Hialeah, Florida. Defendant David H. Richman is an individual residing in Miami, Florida,
Plaintiff Ibis Enterprises, Limited, is the owner of the two patents in suit. Plaintiff Rand
Development Corporation is the exclusive licensee of Ibis Enterprises, Limited, under the patents in
suit and shares the profits derived from said patents with Canadian Ingersoll Rand Company, a
subsidiary of Ingersoll Rand Company. 2. Civil Action This is a civil action for infringement of
United States Patent No. 2,933,125 filed on August 6, 1953 and granted on April 19, 1960 and United
States Patent No. 2,787,314 filed on October 13, 1954 and issued April 2, 1957, and for unfair
competition in trade. Patent No. 2,933,-125 is the main or basic patent and relates to methods and
apparatus for the simultaneous deposition of fiber reinforced plastics; Patent No. 2,787,314 relates
to improvement on the methods and apparatus of the main patent. This action was commenced on April
4, 1961. 3. Background of Patentee David F. Anderson, the patentee of the patents in suit, is a man
of attainments and undenied qualifications. He is a British educated graduate engineer, and he
served as a group captain in the Royal Air Force during World War II and did experimental and test
work because of his engineering background (Anderson Tr. pp. 9-12). Following his retirement from
the Air Force, Anderson formed Fiberlast of Canada, a Canadian Corporation (Anderson Tr. pp. 9-12,
51-52) which acquired exclusive rights under the “Vidal” process for forming glass reinforced
plastic articles. Anderson became familiar with the several other commercial processes then in use
for forming such articles, each of which processes may be grouped in one of two types: “hand lay-up”
and “matched die (or metal) mold” (Anderson Tr. 208-220; Tr. 163-166). 4. Prior Art Hand Lay-Up
Method The “Vidal” process involved, in part, the “hand lay-up” process of laboriously hand
tailoring and fitting of fiberglass cloth or mat (Exhibit 8) on a mold, hand mixing small batches of
a catalyst, promoter and liquid resin mixture which was poured on the tailored cloth. It was
necessary to mix these components in small batches from time to time, as the liquid resin solidified
within a short time once the setting components of catalyst and accelerator were added. In the
“Vidal” process the resin and cloth were covered with a cellophane sheet, and pressure was then
applied thereto to distribute the resin (Anderson Tr. p. 52). In the hand lay-up process the plastic
was distributed and air bubbles were removed by hand brushing or rolling (Tr. pp. 87, 164, 165;
Anderson Tr. pp. 214, 215). 5. Prior Art Matched Metal Mold Method (a) Another process then in use
for forming glass reinforced plastic articles was the so-called “matched metal mold” or “matched
die” process. This process involved the use of male mold and a complementary female mold. A preform,
which comprised chopped strands of fiberglass held loosely in position by a binder of starch or
resin and had a general conformation of the molds (Trial Exhibit 17.1), was then placed on one of
the molds; resin, catalyst and promoter were than mixed and poured onto the preform; and finally,
the other mold was pressed onto the first mold, squeezing the preform and thereby distributing the
resin and forming the resultant plastic article (Tr. pp. 73, 114; Rand Tr. pp. 175, 176). (b) The
fabrication of a preform used in this process is a separate process in which glass roving, a rope-
like material made up of several stands of glass loosely held together (Patent No. 2,933,125, Column
1, lines 21-29), is cut and blown -onto a screen having the general conformation of one of the
matched metal molds. A vacuum within the screen draws the glass fibers onto the screen. After or
during deposit of the fibers on the screen, the fibers are lightly coated with either a powdered or
liquid resin or starch merely to hold the fibers together to permit gentle handling of the preform.
(Tr. pp. 112-114). 6. Anderson Early Work and Invention (a) Anderson was dissatisfied with the hand
lay-up process because of the hand mixing of resins and setting components, the mess created by
pouring and spreading the liquid plastic, and the tedious and time-consuming work required to tailor
and drape the fiberglass mats to fit compound curves on the mold (Anderson Tr. pp. 54-56). He was
further satisfied that he could devise a way to eliminate the expense of pre-form preparation and
the high costs and the limited scope of application associated with the molding step required in the
“matched metal mold” process (Anderson Tr. p. 59). * * * 7. Patent in Suit No. 2,933,125 (a) The
apparatus (claims numbered 1, 3 and 6) of the patents in suit is described by the following passages
from the specification of patent No. 2,933,125; “the depositor is shown as comprising a self-feeding
cutter 10 mounted on and driven by a motor 11. Fiber rope, or roving, is guided by a feed pipe 12
into one side of the cutter 10 wherein the roving is cut into the desired lengths and ejected from
the opposite side of the cutter 10. Mounted on the opposite ends of the cutter frame 13 are spray
guns 14 arranged to direct a spray of atomized plastic on the fiber cuttings ejected from the cutter
10. The sizes and weights of the cutter 10, motor 11 and spray guns 14 are such that the depositor
may be hand-held and readily manipulated by the operator to direct a continuous stream of plastic
impregnated fiber against a form or mold to build up a lamina of.the reinforced plastic article
being fabricated.” (Column 2, lines 39-52). The form of cutter described in the patent comprises a
pair of cylindrical rollers parallel to and in frictional contact with each other. One of the
rollers is driven by the motor and in turn drives the other roller by the frictional contact between
them. One cutter roller has a cutting element like a razor blade imbedded in circumferential spaced
relation so as to cut roving passing in between the rollers (Patent 2,933,125, Column 2, lines
39-72, column 3, lines 1-19). (b) The methods (claims numbered 2, 4 and 5) of patent No. 2,933,125
are described by the following passages from its specifications: “The present invention includes the
method of, and a hand-held device for cutting roving into desired lengths, ejecting the cut fiber
into a spray of resin and then depositing the impregnated roving on a mold. By cutting the fiber,
impregnating it and applying it all in one operation, the operator may readily deposit directly on
to the mold only the appropriate quantities of fiber and activiated resin thereby reducing to a
minimum wastage of resin, fillers and pigment. Moreover, with this invention the resin and its
setting components are mixed only at the point of actual use and hence only as needed.” (Column 1,
lines 55-65). 'When polyester resin is activated by being mixed with an accelerator and a catalyst,
there is a change from a liquid to a solid within a few minutes. In the practice of the process of
the patents in suit, the setting components of the accelerator and promoter are contained in
separate sprays. The setting components of the liquid plastic are thus mixed ■only upon the meeting
and commingling of the sprays of liquid plastic (Patent 2,933,125, Column 4, lines 19-27; Claim ■6).
* * ■* 11. Defendants were Licensees Under Patents in Suit (a) During 1958, Defendant David H.
Richman was employed as sales manager with Fabulous Fiberglass, Inc., a licensee of the Plaintiif
Rand Development Corporation under the patents and pending applications for patents on the Anderson
process and apparatus (Richman Tr. pp. 25-35). (b) Thereafter in 1959 the Defendants David H.
Richman and Spray-Bilt, Inc., became sales agents of Plaintiff Rand Development Corporation
(Plaintiff’s Ex. No. 28; Tr. p. 295; Richman Tr. p. 210). Each of the Defendants, while acting as
such agents, advertised and lauded to the public their contractual relationship with Rand and the
patents on the Rand produced apparatus and the Anderson patented method, and they subsequently
terminated their contractual relationship with the Plaintiif Rand but continued for several months
thereafter to distribute to the public advertising material showing Rand apparatus; some of this
material contained the legend “Patented Process” while making, using and selling admittedly
infringing apparatus manufactured by and for the Defendants without license of Rand (Davis Tr. pp.
44-57; Plaintiffs’ Miami Deposition Exhibits Nos. 20, 22, 23, 25, 27, 49, 70, 71, 73, 74a, E,F, 76).
* * * Yj * * * (a) Claim 11 only of patent No. 2,787,-314 in suit is involved in this suit. The
Defendants have denied infringement. Claim 11 defines a feeding mechanism for the cutter described
in Finding numbered 7(a), supra, and comprises a guide plate and a pair of parallel rollers
positioned on the inlet side of the cutter. This mechanism receives a free end of roving fed through
a hole in the guide plate and directs the roving into the rollers of the cutter. The purposes of
this mechanism are to permit easy feeding of the roving into the cutter, to eliminate any danger of
injury to the operator which is present whenever roving is fed directly into the cutter, and to
prevent roving from falling free of the cutter when the operation of the cutter is interrupted (Tr.
pp. 158, 159; Patent 2,787,314, Column 4, lines 18-48). (b) In the Defendant’s device, there is a
single feed roller positioned on the inlet side of the cutter and parallel to one side of the cutter
rollers. Roving is fed through holes in a guide plate and in between these rollers and then into the
cutter. This feed mechanism is of substantially the same construction and serves the identical
purposes as feed mechanism of the patent in suit (Tr. p. 161). 18. Defendants Palm Off Their
Apparatus as Plaintiffs’ Each of the Defendants offered for sale and in fact accepted an order for
sale to Tampa Shipbuilding Co., Tampa, Florida (Davis Tr. p. 37) apparatus manufactured by Plaintiff
Rand Development Corporation and thereafter, in lieu of the Rand apparatus, delivered to Tampa
Shipbuilding Co. an infringing apparatus manufactured by the Defendants (Davis Tr. p. 40). At this
point several things should be noted: First, finding 6(b) has been omitted. It is, in substance, a
legal determination and, thus, is reviewable free of the “clearly erroneous” limitation. Second,
without questioning the correctness of the remaining findings actually made by the district court
[to the extent that they constitute strictly findings of “primary,” as opposed to “ultimate” fact,
see Galena Oaks Corp. v. Scofield, 218 F.2d 217 (5 Cir. 1954)], we conclude that they are
insufficient in law to sustain the verdict below. There remains a further ground of invalidity not
eliminated by the findings below, and since the factual basis for this decision lies undisputed in
the record itself, it is unnecessary to remand for further findings. See Barron and Holtzoff,
Federal Practice and Procedure § 1138, pp. 570-571 (Wright Ed. 1961). Third, we are cognizant of the
fact that these same patents were recently contested in the Ninth Circuit and found invalid.
Canadian Ingersoll-Rand Co. v. Peterson Prods. of San Mateo, Inc., 9 Cir. 350 F.2d 18 (June 29,
1965), affirming 223 F.Supp. 803 (N.D.Calif. 1963). While we realize that this decree of
noninfringement cannot deprive plaintiff of the right to an independent judgment against this
defendant on this record, we find the decision of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit,
rendered on substantially identical facts, strongly persuasive. See Williams v. Hughes Tool Co., 186
F.2d 278, 281 (10 Cir., 1950). It is true that some of the grounds on which the Ninth Circuit
sustained the California District Court’s holding of invalidity of the patent are not open to us in
light of fact findings by the lower court in this case which we cannot set aside as clearly
erroneous. This does not weaken the reasoning of that Court’s opinion dealing with the ground on
which we base our decision. Fourth, although there may be subtle theoretical distinctions between
newness, 35 U.S.C.A. § 101 and non-obvious subject matter, 35 U.S.C.A. § 103 as statutory conditions
of patentability, we see no practical reason for treating them as separate questions in this context
of combination patents. Directing our attention, then, to the validity of the main Anderson patent
(hereinafter referred to as Anderson ’125) allegedly infringed, we are immediately faced with the
“rather severe test” promulgated by the Supreme Court to test patents made up of new combinations of
old elements, Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. v. Supermarket Equipment Corp., 340 U.S. 147, 152, 71
S.Ct. 127, 130, 95 L.Ed. 162 (1950), i. e., are there “any unusual or surprising consequences from
the unification of the elements here concerned?” Granted, this test is not an end-all by any means,
but it does indicate an approach for determining the validity of combination patents and amounts to
a mandate from the Supreme Court to “scrutinize combination patent claims with a care proportioned
to the difficulty and improbability of finding invention in an assembly of old elements.” Ibid. In
light of this mandate, we must ascertain (1) the status of the prior art at the time of Anderson’s
claimed invention, (2) what Anderson did to improve upon prior art, and (3) whether what Anderson
did is properly to be classified as invention. To achieve meaningful results, greater reliance
should be placed upon the history of the art; it is only through such an approach that substance may
be injected into the vague, general and often specious tests which abound in this area. As the
district court noted, there appear in the record below numerous examples of conflicts in testimony,
self-serving statements and credibility problems in general — problems which, of course, must be
properly resolved by the lower court, subject to the “clearly erroneous” limitation. The evidence
upon which we now rely in reversing, however, stands undisputed in the record. It is clear from the
trial record that the concept of spraying two chemical liquid reactants, one of which carries a
coagulant, for external and mixing reaction is per se old in the art. E. g., Hanson No. 2,335,116
(Tr. p. 189) ; Hanson No. 1,165,099 (Tr. p. 190); Thompson No. 2,265,209 (Tr. p. 190); Semtex
(British) No. 566,543 (Tr. p. 190). Anderson does not purport to be the inventor of the spray guns
used in developing the simultaneous depositor (Anderson deposition at 103); nor did he claim to have
invented the twin spray technique (Anderson deposition at 155). There appears to be only one
substantial reason why the spray guns in the prior art were not suitable to Anderson’s purposes:
Anderson could see no way to introduce the chopped fibers between the converging sprays of the
Schori gun, as it was then designed (Anderson deposition at 108; Anderson deposition Exhibit 36). It
is clear from the record that the problems involved in spraying resin rather than paint had already
been explored and apparently solved before the fruition of Anderson’s efforts in this area (Anderson
deposition Exhibit 36, Feb. 21, 1951). Pursuing further this inquiry into the status of the prior
art, we turn from the spraying of liquids alone to the method of simultaneously ejecting and
spraying various body materials with liquid binders or adhesives. There appear undisputed in the
record several prior art references which fit into this general category, e. g., Lampe No. 2,433,463
(Anderson deposition at 172 et seq.); (process of coating asbestos or cork particles in flight with
suitable adhesive); Brennan No. 2,408,038 (Tr. p. 185) (spraying of fiber or plaster, coating it
with a spray of binder, including resin, to make a finished product (Tr. 220-21); McDonald Nos.
2,313,082 and 2,330,300 (Tr. p. 185) (relating to spraying, of cork with a spray of latex).
Moreover, in the specific category of simultaneous deposition of fiberglass with resin binder is
Thompson No. 2,850,421 (Tr. 187, 255-58), which utilizes a circular disk cutter to cut roving into
short lengths, separating the fibers of the cut roving, projecting them into a jet of uncured
plastic resin and, finally, depositing the coated fibers on a mold or surface. Although the Thompson
patent was overcome as an anticipation by the filing, of Anderson’s affidavit under Patent Office
Rule 131, it remains as evidence relevant to the issue of “obviousiness” and “newness” of.the
Anderson combination. Also within the reinforced plastic field is the prior art involved in the
previous two-step method of making fiberglass reinforced plastic, illustrated by Essman No.
2,653,335 (Tr. 187) and Bacon No. 2,702,261 (Tr. 187). These latter two processes — both relating to
the making of pre-form — combine a cutter element (to be discussed herein) with a resin impregnator
element. Glass strands are fed into a separate cutter, and the cut fibers are then dropped on to a
pre-form screen (shaped in the form of the desired finished product), described more fully in
finding of fact 5(b), supra. In this process the fibers are coated with a binder so that the pre-
form can be more easily handled and carried to the matched die molding stage (Tr. 194-96). The final
component of the relevant prior art which must be examined is the rotary cutter or chopper designed
to sever fiberglass strands into shorter fiberglass lengths. The use of such cutters was old per se
in the art, e. g., Bacon and Essman, supra; Slayter No. 2,618,-817 (Tr. 183, 281) (relating to the
cutting of fiberglass insulation). The cutters utilized in the Bacon and Essman processes were
apparently based upon the principle of the Brenner and Turner cutters (Anderson deposition at
113-114, 241; Tr. 194), both of which admittedly preceded Anderson’s activity in the field by
several years (Anderson deposition at 143). Anderson acknowledged his familiarity with the operation
of both cutters prior to 1952 (Anderson deposition at 113-119), and furthermore, he admitted that
they were the same in principle as his cutter, “in that the roving was cut by a blade which was
protruding from a roller, and cut the roving against a resilient roller, in this case rubber.”
(Anderson deposition at 117). A discussion of the prior art and use would be incomplete without
reference to the activities of Utility Trailer Co., a detailed description of which can be found in
the district court’s findings of fact, 220 F.Supp. at 71-72. Assuming, without deciding, that the
record supports the district court’s quasi legal conclusion that Utility had “abandoned” its efforts
in the area of reinforced plastics, Utility’s endeavors in this field prior to the perfection of
Anderson’s apparatus are pertinent to the issue of obviousness and lack of invention in Anderson.
The only apparent difference between the Utility device and that of Anderson is the lack of physical
conjunction between the cutter and the spray gun in the former. Although certainly not exhaustive,
the above describes, in substance, the status of the art prior to the culmination of Anderson’s
efforts in 1952. The next step in our analysis is to determine exactly what Anderson did to improve
upon prior art, since the fact of some improvement cannot be denied. Anderson seems to have been the
first to mount a chopper between two nozzles emitting converging sprays of liquid. This elimination
of separate cut down on glass waste. Moreover, the portability of this device apparently resulted in
more flexibility, allowing wider areas of application, e. g., overhead fabrication or coating.
Finally, this innovation would seem to effect a more thorough wetting of all fibers, with a
resulting attainment of more uniform strength of the laminate. The California district court
correctly described the substance of Anderson’s case for improvement over the prior art as being
“limited to the single point of the simultaneous, as distinguished from the previous two step,
depositing of fiberglass roving with resin binder to form a reinforced plastic article.” Canadian
Ingersoll-Rand Co. v. Peterson Prods. of San Mateo, Inc., 223 F.Supp. 803, 809 (N.D.Calif.1963).
Having thus analyzed the status of the prior art and the extent of Anderson’s improvements
thereupon, we must determine whether what Anderson did is properly classified as invention —
subjecting Anderson ’125 to the “rather severe test” outlined by the Supreme Court in the Great
Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. case, supra. In our opinion, the district court focused its attention so
heavily upon distinguishing in detail each individual apparatus from the Anderson ’125 that it
failed to appreciate the cumulative effect of the relevant prior art as it bears upon the issue of
“obviousness” of the Anderson combination. While it is true that Anderson was the first to mount the
chopper between converging sprays of liquid resin, he admitted that this use of the cutter in his
apparatus “occurred to me the moment I saw the roving.” (Anderson deposition at 68-69). Prior to the
availability of strands of fiberglass roving experimentally in 1950 or ’51, (Anderson deposition at
69-70), there were several references to the simultaneous deposition of already-cut body materials
and liquid adhesives, e. g., Lampe, supra; Brennan, supra; McDonald, supra; Thompson, supra; Bacon,
supra; Essman, supra. In addition, Anderson himself, dissatisfied with the fiberglass mats which he
had been using as body material or molding, decided in 1951 to substitute, as a reinforcement,
already chopped fibers which he planned to blow through a hose onto a form between two sprays of
resin. However, before he had proceeded very far with this idea, he received his first samples of
fiberglass strand roving and therefore turned his attention to cutting roving directly onto the mold
and developing a cutter which could be placed between the two nozzles (Anderson deposition at 55-58,
63-64). Furthermore, Anderson admitted, that if a cutter were added to the Lampe process, supra, and
the nozzles modified suitably, one would end up with a device similar to Anderson ’125 (Anderson
deposition at 174). Regarding the cutter itself, although the Bacon and Essman prior art, supra,
which utilized the Brenner and Turner type cutters, supra, were apparently not portable and thus not
flexible enough for Anderson’s operation (Anderson deposition at 118-119), the Slayter device,
supra, did embody this portability feature (Anderson deposition at 171-172). While Slayter allegedly
was not a suitable cutter for Anderson’s purposes (Anderson deposition at 170-171), since the blades
could not converge simultaneously, both the Bacon and Ess-man cutters were apparently adequate in
this respect (Anderson deposition at 114-122). From this assemblage of the pri- or art, we conclude
that the Anderson ’125 combination patent as a whole is lacking in “any unusual or surprising
consequences from the unification of the elements here concerned.” Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co.,
supra, 340 U.S. at 152, 71 S.Ct. at 130. While we realize that the materials used in, and the end
purposes of, the above references do not identically correspond to their counterparts in the field
of reinforced plastics (but see Thompson, supra), we nevertheless conclude that they comprise the
relevant prior art contemplated by 35 U.S.C.A. § 103, set out in full at note 2 supra. To place an
imaginary barrier around the reinforced plastics field, and to limit the prior art which may be
considered in determining “obviousness” under 35 U.S.C.A. § 103 accordingly, would not correspond to
reality. Surely the mind of a person having ordinary skill in the field of reinforced plastics in
1951 was not so artificially circumscribed. Moreover, a ruling to the contrary would provide a
stimulus to attempted patents upon mounted cutter-spray gun combinations in these analogous areas of
simultaneous deposition. Such a result would be antithetical to the higher end which the
Constitutional grant of monopolistic patent privilege was designed to serve — the advancement of
science. Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co., supra, 340 U.S. at 154-154, 155, 71 S.Ct. 127 (Douglas,
concurring) . To summarize, the Anderson ’125 combines (1) the prior art process of simultaneously
depositing pre-cut body material and binder, (2) the prior art roller-cutter device and (3) the
prior art feature of portability. Nor do these old component elements “perform any additional or
different function in the combination than they perform out of it. -x- * * Two and two have been
added together, and still they make only four.” Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co., supra, 340 U.S. at
152, 71 S.Ct. at 130. We agree with the conclusion of the district court in Canadian Ingersoll-Rand
Co. v. Peterson Prods. of San Mateo, 223 P. Supp. 803, 814 (N.D.Calif.1963), that “patentable
invention certainly cannot be held to consist in merely making a bracket to mount a cutter on a
spray gun — a mechanical step that would be obvious to any mechanically skilled person who wanted to
accomplish the simultaneous operation-in that manner rather than by holding the chopper and the
spray gun separately.” Our conclusions are influenced by the relative youth of the fiberglass
industry and especially by the fact that fiberglass roving in strands did not become available for
experiment until approximately 1950. The efforts of Utility (abandoned or not) and Anderson,
following so closely upon the availability of roving strands are indicative of the obviousness of
the Anderson ’125 combination. Any other result would allow a person with ordinary skill in an art
to sweep under the monopolistic protection of a patent the mechanical adaptation of new materials to
the existing art. Implicit in our holding is a finding that any presumption of validity attached to
the issuance of this patent has been overcome by clear and convincing evidence to the contrary,
evidence which lies undisputed in the record of this case.


