**gold_text:**
Ultimately Plaintiffs fail to make a case for retaliatory discharge under the FLSA, regardless of
whether they hinge their claim upon the letters they signed in 2003 or the letters they signed and
submitted in 2005. In both cases, Plaintiffs cannot meet the elements required to establish a prima
facie case under 29 U.S.C. § 215(a)(3). Under the statute, it is unlawful for any person “to
discharge or in any other matter discriminate against any employee because such employee has filed
any complaint or instituted or caused to be instituted any proceeding under or related to this Act
[29 U.S.C. 201 et seq.], or has testified or is about to testify in any such proceeding or has
served or is about to serve on an industry committee.” 29 U.S.C. § 215(a)(3). In order to establish
a prima facie case of retaliation under 29 U.S.C. § 215(a)(3), Plaintiffs must demonstrate that (1)
they engaged in activity protected under the act; (2) they suffered adverse action by the employer,
and (3) a causal connection existed between the employee’s activity and the adverse action. Wolf v.
Coca-Cola Company, 200 F.3d 1337, 1342-43 (11th Cir.2000) (citing Richmond v. ONEOK, Inc., 120 F.3d
205, 208-09 (10th Cir.1997)). If the Defendant is able to present a valid reason for terminating the
Plaintiffs’ employment, then the Plaintiff may attempt to show that the proffered reason is
pretextual in nature. See id. Furthermore, in demonstrating causation, the plaintiff must prove that
the adverse action would not have been taken “but for” the assertion of FLSA rights. See Reich v.
Davis, 50 F.3d 962, 965-66 (11th Cir.1995).

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
The FLSA protects employees from retaliation for asserting their rights under the statute, and a
prima facie case for FLSA retaliation requires demonstrating that: (1) the employee engaged in
protected activity, (2) subsequently suffered adverse employment action, and (3) a causal connection
exists between the protected activity and the adverse action (see 200 F.3d 1337 and 120 F.3d 205).
In this case, while Plaintiffs claim they were discharged for asserting their FLSA rights concerning
overtime compensation, the evidence suggests otherwise.  Firstly, there is a lack of clear evidence
from the Plaintiffs that their complaints about unpaid overtime constituted protected activity under
FLSA prior to their termination, analogous to the insufficient evidence cited in the February 24
meeting of the Appellant in 200 F.3d 1337. Secondly, Plaintiffs also allege wrongful discharge for
other grievances, such as salary increases and discriminatory comments, which do not directly
implicate FLSA rights.  Moreover, demonstrating causation requires proving that the adverse action
would not have occurred "but for" the assertion of FLSA rights (see 50 F.3d 962, 965-66). The
timeline and nature of the complaints in this case fail to establish this "but for" causation needed
to support a retaliation claim under the FLSA.  Therefore, considering the standards set by these
precedent cases and the evidence at hand, the Court finds no genuine issue of material fact
regarding FLSA retaliation. Accordingly, Defendants are entitled to summary judgment on the FLSA
retaliatory discharge claim.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
 ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  After reviewing the cases of 200 F.3d 1337,
120 F.3d 205, and 50 F.3d 962, I conclude that the Defendants’ motion for summary judgment should be
granted.  Firstly, with regards to the FLSA retaliation claim, the Plaintiffs failed to demonstrate
a prima facie case of retaliation. According to Richmond v. ONEOK, Inc., 120 F.3d 205, a prima facie
case of FLSA retaliation requires a demonstration by the plaintiff of the following: (1) she engaged
in activity protected under [the] act; (2) she subsequently suffered adverse action by the employer;
and (3) a causal connection existed between the employee’s activity and the adverse action. In this
case, the Plaintiffs failed to show that their protected activity (i.e., signing the letters) was
the cause of their termination.  Furthermore, the Plaintiffs’ claim under Title 29 U.S.C. §
215(a)(3) is also unpersuasive. According to Reich v. Davis, 50 F.3d 962, a plaintiff must
demonstrate that the adverse action would not have been taken “but for” the assertion of FLSA
rights. Here, the Plaintiffs failed to show that their termination was the direct result of their
assertion of FLSA rights.  In conclusion, based on the cases of 200 F.3d 1337, 120 F.3d 205, and 50
F.3d 962, I grant the Defendants’ motion for summary judgment. The Plaintiffs failed to demonstrate
a prima facie case of FLSA retaliation and their claim under Title 29 U.S.C. § 215(a)(3) is
unpersuasive.


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['200 F.3d 1337', '120 F.3d 205', '50 F.3d 962']

***short_citations_0:*** 200 F.3d 1337

entitled to ERISA benefits is determinative regarding plaintiffs entitlement to benefits under COBRA.” B. Claim of Retaliation Under the FLSA. The FLSA protects persons against retaliation for asserting their rights under the statute. See 29 U.S.C. § 215(a)(3). A prima facie case of FLSA retaliation requires a demonstration by the plaintiff of the following: “(1) she engaged in activity protected under [the] act; (2) she subsequently suffered adverse action by the employer; and (3) a causal connection existed between the employee’s activi ty and the adverse action.” Richmond v. ONEOK, Inc., 120 F.3d 205, 208-09 (10th Cir.1997). If the employer asserts a legitimate reason for the adverse action, the plaintiff may attempt to show pretext. See id. In demonstrating causation, the plaintiff must prove that the adverse action would not have been taken “but for” the assertion of FLSA rights. See Reich v. Davis, 50 F.3d 962, 965-66 (11th Cir.1995). Although Appellant’s FLSA retaliation claim may meet the first element, the district court correctly found that Appellant’s claim fails the other two. The second element requires that the adverse action be subsequent to the assertion of FLSA rights. The record demonstrates, however, that there is only one occasion prior to her termination when Appellant might have asserted FLSA rights — -the Feb. 24 meeting. We agree with the district court that the evidence regarding the Feb. 24 meeting was insufficient to meet Appellant’s burden of producing a dispute of material fact regarding whether she asserted FLSA rights before being fired.

***short_citations_1:*** 120 F.3d 205

as to whether the employer’s proffered reason for the challenged action is pretextual.’ ” Id. (quoting Randle v. City of Aurora, 69 F.3d 441, 451 (10th Cir.1995)). In order to establish a prima facie claim for FLSA or FMLA retaliation, a plaintiff must show that: (1) she engaged in activity protected under either act; (2) she subsequently suffered adverse action by the employer; and (3) a causal connection exist ed between the employee’s activity and the adverse action. Archuleta v. Colorado Dep’t of Institutions, 936 F.2d 483, 486 (10th Cir.1991). A plaintiff can demonstrate pretext by showing “weaknesses, implausibilities, inconsistencies, incoherencies, or contradictions in the employer’s ... reasons for its action,” which “a reasonable factfinder could rationally find ... unworthy of credence.” Morgan, 108 F.3d at 1323 (citations and internal quotations omitted). Mere conjecture that the employer’s reason is pretext, however, will not defeat a motion for summary judgment. Id. A. FLSA retaliation claim Ms. Richmond claims that a suspension in April 1994 and her ultimate termination in July 1994 were in retaliation for her claim to overtime pay under FLSA. The district court denied ONEOK’s summary judgment on the issue of whether the suspension was retaliatory. The court granted summary judgment as to the termination, however, holding that the three-month period of time between her protected activity and termination was insufficient to establish a causal connection. See Archuleta, 936 F.2d at 486. Ms. Richmond contends that the district court’s ruling directly contradicts the Tenth Circuit’s panel decision in Marx

***short_citations_2:*** 50 F.3d 962

he seeks.

**prev_text:**
ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT MORENO, District Judge. Before the Court is
an action brought by the Plaintiffs against their former employers' for failure to pay overtime
compensation as required by the Fair Labor Standards Act (“FLSA”), 29 U.S.C. § 207, and for
retaliatory discharge as prohibited by the FLSA under 29 U.S.C. § 215(a)(3). Here the Defendants
move the Court for summary judgment (D.E. No. 25) on both of the Plaintiffs’ claims. For the reasons
set forth below, this motion is GRANTED. I. Background Plaintiffs are all former drivers for the
Defendant, I.G.W.T. I.G.W.T. is an independent subcontractor for DHL and does not have an office,
but operates out of the DHL terminal with other DHL subcontractors. I.G.W.T.’s operations are
limited to South Miami Dade County, Florida. As part of its contract with DHL, I.G.W.T. picks up
packages and letters from their designated routes and delivers them to the DHL terminal for travel
to their ultimate interstate or international destinations. I.G.W.T. also delivers DHL packages and
letters which arrive from other states and international locales to their ultimate recipients in
South Miami Dade County. The individual Defendants are the owners and officers of I.G.W.T. Mr.
Rodriguez ran the day to day operations in the warehouse, while Mrs. Rodriguez ran the
administrative aspects of the company. The Plaintiffs’ main responsibility entailed the delivery and
collection of freight in South Miami Dade County on behalf of DHL. Specifically, their job required
them to report to the DHL terminal in the morning and await the arrival of freight on board a DHL
truck from the airport. The freight arrives daily via air and originates from other states and
countries. Once the freight is unloaded by DHL employees, the Plaintiffs sort them by route, enter
the package information into their hand scanners, and load them onto their delivery vans. Once the
vans are loaded, Plaintiffs deliver the packages by motor carrier to their intended recipients based
on priority of service. Similarly, the Plaintiffs pick up letters and packages from business and
individuals on their designated routes. At the end of the day, once all packages have been delivered
and picked up, the Plaintiffs return to the DHL terminal and park their vans at the loading dock.
Then, DHL employees unload the packages for delivery to the DHL plane for national and international
delivery to their ultimate destinations. II.Legal Standard Summary judgment is authorized where
there is no genuine issue of material fact. Fed.R.Civ.P. 56(c). The party seeking summary judgment
bears the initial burden of demonstrating the absence of a genuine issue of material fact. Adickes
v. S.H. Kress & Co., 398 U.S. 144, 157, 90 S.Ct. 1598, 26 L.Ed.2d 142 (1970). The party opposing the
motion for summary judgment may not simply rest upon mere allegations or denials of the pleadings,
the non-moving party must establish the essential elements of its case on which it will bear the
burden of proof at trial. Celotex Corp. v. Catrett, 477 U.S. 317, 106 S.Ct. 2548, 91 L.Ed.2d 265
(1986); Matsushita Elec. Indus. Co. v. Zenith Radio Corp., 475 U.S. 574, 106 S.Ct. 1348, 89 L.Ed.2d
538 (1986). The nonmovant must present more than a scintilla of evidence in support of the
nonmovant’s position. A jury must be able reasonably to find for the nonmov-ant. Anderson v. Liberty
Lobby, Inc., 477 U.S. 242, 254, 106 S.Ct. 2505, 91 L.Ed.2d 202 (1986). III.Analysis A. Motor Carrier
Exemption Plaintiffs claim they worked in excess of forty hours per week during their employment and
are therefore entitled to overtime compensation from their former employers under the Fair Labor
Standards Act (“FLSA”), 29 U.S.C. § 207. Pursuant to the Fair Labor Standards Act, an employer must
compensate employees not less than one and one-half times their regular rate for hours worked in
excess of fort hours per week. 29 U.S.C. § 207(a)(1). In the event that an employer fails to pay
overtime, where required by law, an employee may sue an employer for unpaid overtime wages. 29
U.S.C. § 216(b). Defendants claim that Plaintiffs are exempt from the payment of overtime wages,
however, pursuant to 29 U.S.C. § 213(b)(1), otherwise known as the motor carrier exemption. Under
the motor carrier exemption, “[t]he provisions of section 207 of this title shall not apply with
respect to any employee with respect to whom the Secretary of Transportation has power to establish
qualifications and maximum hours of service pursuant to the provisions of section 31502 of title
49.” Title 49 U.S.C. § 31502(b)(l)(2) provides that “[t]he Secretary of Transportation may prescribe
requirements for (1) qualifications and maximum hours of service of employees of, and safety of
operation and equipment of, a motor carrier; and (2) qualifications and maximum hours of service of
employees of, and standards of equipment of, a motor private carrier, when needed to promote safety
of operation.” As explained by the Eleventh Circuit, “[t]he Secretary has power to establish
qualifications and maximum hours of service for employees who (1) are employed by carriers whose
transportation of passengers or property by motor vehicle is subject to the Secretary’s jurisdiction
under the Motor Carrier Act; and (2) engage in activities of a character directly affecting the
safety of operation of motor vehicles in the transportation on the public highways of passengers or
property in interstate or foreign commerce within the meaning of the Motor Carrier Act.” Baez v.
Wells Fargo Armored Service Corp., 938 F.2d 180, 181-82 (11th Cir.1991) (citing 29 C.F.R. §
782.2(a)); see also Opelika Royal Grown Bottling Co. v. Goldberg, 299 F.2d 37, 43 (5th Cir.1962)
(holding that driver-helpers who load and unload cargo affect the safety of the vehicle and are
therefore exempt from the overtime provisions of the FLSA by section 13(b)(1)). Therefore, in order
to determine whether summary judgment should be granted for the employer in this case under the
motor carrier exemption, the Court must determine whether (1) the employer is a motor carrier and
(2) if the Plaintiffs were engaged in activity directly affecting the safety of operation of motor
vehicles in interstate commerce. 1. Defendant I.G.W.T. Qualifies as a “Motor Carrier” A motor
carrier is defined as “a person providing motor vehicle transportation for compensation.” 49 U.S.C.
§ 13102(12). The term “transportation” includes a “motor vehicle, vessel, warehouse, wharf, pier,
dock, yard, property, facility, instrumentality, or equipment of any kind related to the movement of
passengers or property, or both, regardless of ownership or an agreement concerning use; and...
services related to that movement, including arranging for, receipt, delivery, elevation, transfer
in transit, refrigeration, icing, ventilation, storage, handling, packing, unpacking, and
interchange of passengers and property.” Id. at § 13102(21)(A)-(B). In this case it is clear that
the Defendant, I.G.W.T., as a contractor for DHL, provides motor vehicle transportation of letters,
packages, and parcels to and from the DHL terminal for compensation. Plaintiffs do not challenge
this point. Therefore this first element required by the motor carrier exemption is met by the
employer-Defendant, I.G.W.T. 2. Plaintiffs Were Engaged in Activity Directly Affecting the Safety of
Operation of Motor Vehicles in Interstate Commerce Plaintiffs allege in their Response that the
evidence in this case “does not support Defendants’ contention that the Plaintiffs’ deliveries and
pick ups involved only items originating from or destined for delivery outside the state of
Florida.” However, a majority of the depositions submitted do illustrate that the Plaintiffs were
engaged in interstate commerce. According to testimony provided by several Plaintiffs, I.G.W.T.
clearly picks up packages and letters intended for delivery throughout the United States, as well as
internationally. See Appendix of Exhibits in Support of Defendants’ Motion for Final Summary
Judgment, A-4, pp. 19-20; A-5 pp. 19-20; A-6 p. 37; A-7 pp. 37-39; A-8, pp. 83-84. As employees of
I.G.W.T., Plaintiffs played a key intermediary role in the fulfillment of preexisting orders by
delivering letters and packages to and from the DHL terminal for travel to their ultimate interstate
or international destinations. It is irrelevant that the Plaintiffs themselves only traveled within
the South Florida area picking up and delivering packages, as this is enough to satisfy the
interstate commerce requirement. See Baez, 938 F.2d at 182 (finding the transport of checks, coins,
mail, and currency by the Plaintiffs within the Miami, Florida area still met the definition of
interstate commerce and the motor carrier exemption given that the financial instruments were
ultimately bound for banks outside the state of Florida); Opelika Royal Crown Bottling Co., 299 F.2d
at 43 (holding that although the employees themselves traveled only intrastate, the cargo being
transported was destined for a neighboring state and therefore the drivers were exempt from overtime
compensation under § 213(b)(1)); see also 29 C.F.R. § 782.7(b)(1) (stating that a driver is engaged
in interstate commerce under the Motor Carrier Act and the FLSA even though “the vehicles do not
actually cross State lines but operate solely within a single State... Transportation within a
single State is in interstate commerce within the meaning of the Fair Labor Standards Act where it
forms as part of á ‘practical continuity of movement’ across State lines from the point of origin to
the point of destination.”) Plaintiffs allege that Defendants’ motion for summary judgment should
also be denied because it fails to provide airway bills or other documentation to demonstrate that
the origin and destination of parcels picked up or delivered by the Plaintiffs was intrastate and
international in nature. However, such additional evidence is unnecessary given the Plaintiffs’
deposition testimony, which sufficiently demonstrates that there is no genuine issue of material
fact with regards to I.G.W.T.’s involvement in interstate commerce. Plaintiffs also claim that the
interstate component of the deliveries made by the Defendant is de minimis in nature, but have
failed to allege any specific facts to support such a claim. See Celotex Corp., 477 U.S. at 324, 106
S.Ct. 2548 (stating that “Rule 56(c).. .requires a non-moving party to go beyond the pleadings and
by [its] own affidavits or by the ‘depositions, answers to interrogatories, and admissions on file’
designate ‘specific facts showing that there is a genuine issue for trial.’ ”). Thus the Plaintiffs’
argument does not defeat the Defendants’ properly supported motion for summary judgment. See
Anderson, 477 U.S. at 247-48, 106 S.Ct. 2505 (holding that the mere existence of “some alleged
factual dispute between the parties will not defeat an otherwise properly supported motion for
summary judgment; the requirement is that there be no genuine issue of material fact.”) Finally
there is little question that as I.G.W.T. delivery truck drivers, Plaintiffs’ activities directly
affected the safety of operation of motor vehicles in interstate commerce. Under Title 29, C.F.R. §
782.3(a), a driver is defined as “an individual who drives a motor vehicle transportation which is,
within the meaning of the Motor Carrier Act, in interstate or foreign commerce.” Furthermore, “[t]he
work of an employee who is a full-duty or partial duty ‘driver,’ as the term ‘driver’ is above
defined, directly affects ‘safety of operation’ within the meaning of section 204 of the Motor
Carrier Act whenever he drives a motor vehicle in interstate or foreign commerce within the meaning
of that act.” 29 C.F.R. § 782.3(b) (citing Levinson v. Spector Motor Service, 330 U.S. 649, 67 S.Ct.
931, 91 L.Ed. 1158 (1947)). In this case Plaintiffs served as a key component in the interstate
delivery process of I.G.W.T. packages to locales around the United States and the world. These
drivers consistently loaded and unloaded letters and packages from delivery trucks, and therefore
the second prong of the motor carrier exception is met in this case. See Levinson, 330 U.S. at 669,
67 S.Ct. 931 (citing Ex parte No. MC—2, 28 M.C.C. 125, 138-39) (explaining that the employees of
private or contract carriers of property by motor vehicle subject to the Interstate Commerce Act
include drivers, mechanics, loaders, and helpers, all of which perform duties which directly affect
safety of operation). B. FLSA Retaliatory Discharge Claim With regards to the Plaintiffs’ claim
under Title 29 U.S.C. § 215(a)(3), there appears to be some confusion as to which series of events
is the true cause of the alleged retaliatory discharge. Plaintiffs argue that their case implicates
rights under the FLSA because at least three of the Plaintiffs were required to sign a letter
presented to them in 2003 by the Defendant, Avelina Rodriguez, agreeing to work on a fixed salary
and not receive overtime compensation. Two Plaintiffs also testified that they felt they were
coerced into signing the letter or they would lose their jobs. Defendant Avelina Rodriguez does not
recall any of the Plaintiffs complaining about signing the subject letter. Plaintiffs allege that
this gives rise to a genuine issue of material fact as to whether Plaintiffs voiced complaints
concerning the non-payment of overtime. At the same time Plaintiffs have also alleged through
deposition testimony that they were wrongfully discharged for signing and submitting two letters to
the Defendant in 2005 requesting, among other things, an increase in salary, reorganization of
delivery routes, the cessation of discriminatory comments on the job, and increased courtesy and
respect in company memorandums. Plaintiffs allege that signing these letters led to termination of
their employment with the Defendant. See Appendix of Exhibits in Support of Defendants’ Motion for
Final Summary Judgment, A-2, p. 73; A-4, pp. 66-67; A-5, pp. 29-30; A-6, p. 50; A-7, p. 49.


