**gold_text:**
The final question raised by appellant government is whether corporate records should be excluded as
a sanction for non-compliance with the warning regulations. Some of the records obtained in the
morning meeting were apparently those of Embassy Homes, Inc., the incorporated portion of Jobin’s
business. The warning regulations themselves are phrased in terms of a natural person, and are not
designed to highlight any privilege possessed by a corporation. See United States v. Sourapas,
supra, 515 F.2d at 299. More significantly, it is firmly established that the corporation has no
Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination and no corporate officer can prevent the disclosure
of corporate records which may personally incriminate him. Wilson v. United States, 221 U.S. 361, 31
S.Ct. 538, 55 L.Ed. 771 (1911); see Bellis v. United States, 417 U.S. 85, 94 S.Ct. 2179, 40 L.Ed.2d
678 (1974). Thus, the IRS could have obtained the corporate records through enforcement, 26 U.S.C. §
7604, of the summonses issued to Jobin if he had asserted his rights.

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
The remaining issue concerns the corporate records. The government argues that these should not be
suppressed even if the individual records and statements are excluded. In United States v. Wilson,
221 U.S. 361, 385 (1911), the Supreme Court held that corporate records are not protected by
personal privileges available to individuals. The Court reasoned that corporate officers, such as
Jobin, hold and use corporate records purely in an official capacity, and thus cannot claim personal
rights over said records as against a valid governmental demand. This principle was reaffirmed in
417 U.S. 85, which explicitly states that the privilege against self-incrimination does not extend
to corporate records, irrespective of whether the investigation targets the corporation or an
individual.  Applying these precedents, it is clear that Jobin’s objection to producing the
corporate records lacks legal foundation. The duty to comply with lawful summonses lies with the
corporation, independent of personal rights. Therefore, we hold that the district court erred in
suppressing the Embassy corporate records obtained during any of the meetings. The suppression
applies solely to individual records and statements garnered from the taxpayer, Claude Jobin.
Consequently, the Embassy corporate records should be available for the government's prosecutorial
use.  In conclusion, we affirm the district court's suppression of evidence obtained from Jobin
personally on the morning of May 2, 1973, and reverse the suppression order with respect to the
Embassy corporate records and any subsequent information obtained after the proper warnings were
given.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
  In the context of legal cases, the concept of personal privilege is crucial in determining the
extent to which individuals can withhold information or records from the government. In the case of
United States v. Leahey (434 F.2d 7), the court held that the privilege cannot be maintained with
respect to corporate records, and the same principle applies to personal records. As stated in
Wilson v. United States (221 U.S. 361), "The only question is whether as against the corporation the
books were lawfully required in the administration of justice. When the appellant became president
of the corporation and as such held and used its books for the transaction of its business committed
to his charge, he was at all times subject to its direction, and the books continuously remained
under its control."  In the case at hand, the government appeals from an order granting a motion to
suppress evidence obtained in violation of Internal Revenue Service guidelines. The district court
held that the Special Agent failed to advise the taxpayer concerning the possible criminal nature of
the investigation and that the omissions were not so serious as to compel suppression. However, the
court's finding that the Agent failed to give the criminal warning at the morning meeting was not
clearly erroneous, and the government's argument that the omission was not a substantive violation
of the IRS regulations is unpersuasive.  The court held that the exclusion of the evidence gathered
at the morning meeting was warranted, and the "fruit of the poisonous tree" doctrine should apply to
suppress evidence acquired in subsequent meetings. The court also found that the evidence derived
from the meetings between the IRS Special Agents and Jobin at the afternoon meeting on May 2 and on
subsequent occasions should not be suppressed, citing the principles outlined in United States v.
Maciel (351 F.Supp. 817) and United States v. Bayer (331 U.S. 532).  In conclusion, the court's
decision is guided by the principles outlined in United States v. Leahey and Wilson v. United
States, emphasizing the importance of uniform conduct on the part of IRS Agents and vindication of
the taxpayer's right to rely on the published statements of the IRS. The court's holding is
consistent with the concept of personal privilege, which is circumscribed by the requirement that
individuals subject to government investigation be advised of their rights and provided with an
opportunity to consult with counsel.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-finetuned:***
  In the present case, we are not faced with the type of “substantial” omission of the warnings, as
in Wilson v. United States, 221 U.S. 361, 384, 31 S.Ct. 621, 626, 55 L.Ed. 771, 780 (1911), or the
“clear and unmistakable” failure to provide the warnings, as in United States v. Leahey, supra, 434
F.2d at 8. The “substantial” omission in Wilson v. United States, supra, was a result of the failure
to provide the warnings at all. In Leahey, the warnings were provided, but they were “clearly and
unmistakably” inadequate. In the present case, the warnings were provided, but they were
“substantially” inadequate. The difference between the cases lies in the degree of the breach of the
regulations. The “substantial” omission in the present case was not a result of the failure to
provide the warnings at all, nor was it a result of the failure to provide the warnings in a way
that was clearly and unmistakably inadequate. Rather, it was a result of the failure to provide the
warnings in a way that was substantially inadequate. In light of this difference, we find that the
principles underlying Leahey, promotion of uniform conduct on the part of IRS Agents and vindication
of the taxpayer’s right to rely on the published statements of the IRS, 434 F.2d at 10, would not be
served by the exclusion of derived evidence in this case. These interests are adequately protected
by suppression of the evidence gained at the morning meeting. Suppression of further evidence,
despite the subsequent effort to warn Jobin fully of his rights, would serve no independent purpose.
See also United States v. Doe, 417 U.S. 85, 94 S.Ct. 2185, 40 L.Ed.2d 678 (1974). See also United
States v. Doe, 417 U.S. 85, 94 S.Ct. 2185, 40 L.Ed.2d 678 (1974). See also United States v. Doe, 417
U.S. 85, 94 S.Ct. 2185, 40 L.Ed.2d 678 (1974). See also United States v. Doe, 417 U.S. 85, 94 S.Ct.
2185, 40 L.Ed.2d


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['221 U.S. 361', '417 U.S. 85']

***short_citations_0:*** 221 U.S. 361

of any basis for a claim on his part of personal privilege as to them; it could not depend upon the question whether or not another was accused. The only, question was whether as against the corporation the books were lawfully required in the administration of justice. When the appellant became president of the corporation and as such held and used its books for the transaction of its business committed to his charge, he was at all times subject to its direction, and the books continuously remained under its control. If another took his place his custody would yield. He could assert no personal right to retain the corporate books against any demand of government which the corporation- was bound to recognize. We have not overlooked the early English decisions to which our attention has been called (Rex v. Purnell, 1 W. Bl. 37; Rex v. Granatelli, 7 State Tr. N. S. 979; see also Rex v. Cornelius, 2 Stra. 1210), but these cannot be deemed controlling. The corporate duty, and the relation of the appellant as the officer of the corporation to its discharge, are to be determined by our laws. Nothing more is demanded than that the appellant should perform the obligations pertaining to his custody and should produce the books which he holds in his official capacity in accordance with the requirements of the subpoena. None of his personal papers are subject to inspection under the writ and his action, in refusing to permit the examination of

***short_citations_1:*** 417 U.S. 85

of the inquiry. Assuming that this is true, it does not give petitioner any greater claim to the privilege. We have rejected this same argument in holding that the privilege cannot be maintained with respect to corporate records, in words fully applicable here: “Nor is it an answer to say that in the present case the inquiry before the grand jury was not directed against the corporation itself. The appellant had no greater right to withhold the books by reason of the fact that the corporation was not charged with criminal abuses. That, if the corporation had been so charged, he would have been, compelled to submit the books to inspection, despite the consequences to himself, sufficiently shows the absence of any basis for a claim on his part of personal privilege as to them; it could not depend upon the question whether or not another was accused.” Wilson v. United States, 221 U. S. 361, 385 (1911). Significantly, the District Court here excluded any client files from the scope of its order. See n. 1, supra. A different case might be presented if petitioner had been ordered to produce files containing work which he had personally performed on behalf of his clients, even if these files might for some purposes be viewed as those of the partnership. The Court in White, in pointing out that union records were generally open to inspection by the members, 322 U. S., at 699-700, relied upon Guthrie v. Harkness, 199 U. S. 148,

**prev_text:**
COFFIN, Chief Judge. This is a government appeal, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3731, from an order
granting a motion to suppress evidence obtained in violation of Internal Revenue Service guidelines.
Relying upon United States v. Leahey, 434 F.2d 7 (1st Cir. 1970), the district court ordered the
exclusion of all oral statements and records obtained from the taxpayer defendant as a result of
certain specified interviews. We affirm in part, and reverse in part. In the underlying criminal tax
prosecution, defendant-appellee Claude Jobin and Embassy Homes, Inc. were charged with thirteen
counts of wilful failure to file a return, supply information, or pay tax, 26 U.S.C. § 7203. During
the period covered by the information, Claude Jobin was doing business as Jobin Associates, Inc.
(Associates), engaged in framing homes, a portion of the building construction process. Embassy
Homes, Inc. (Embassy) was a New Hampshire corporation owned and operated solely by Jobin and his
wife. It served as the prime contractor for some of the projects on which Jobin Associates, Inc.
worked. The gravamen of the information filed against Jobin and Embassy was that they had failed to
file returns and pay over the taxes withheld from their employees, i. e., federal income tax
withheld, and social security taxes. On April 19, 1973, Special Agent Donald Cote of the IRS left
four summonses at the field office of Associates for the production of the records of Associates and
Embassy. In response to the summonses, Jobin arranged a meeting with Special Agent Cote at the
office of the IRS in Manchester, N.H. for May 2, 1973. Under Internal Revenue Service Guidelines,
Special Agents are required to give taxpayers warnings concerning their rights at the outset of an
interview. Cote testified at the suppression hearing that he gave Jobin all the required warnings at
the meeting on the morning of May 2 (morning meeting) except the statement concerning the assistance
of counsel (the attorney warning). The district court found, however, that Agent Cote also omitted
that portion of the required warnings as contained in the official NAR Pub. 120 which provides that
the Special Agent inform the taxpayer that “one of my functions is to investigate the possibility of
criminal violations of the Internal Revenue laws (the criminal warning). An extended interview then
took place during which Jobin turned over various records of his business enterprises. On the
afternoon of May 2, Special Agent Cote visited Jobin at his residence and obtained additional
records (the afternoon meeting). Cote testified at the suppression hearing that he repeated the
warnings of NAR Pub. 120 at the outset of this meeting. An agent who accompanied Cote to the
afternoon meeting corroborated this testimony. The district court, however, found otherwise. There
were two subsequent meetings between Cote and Jobin: on June 19 and October 1, 1973. Agent Cote
testified, and the district court found, that the proper warnings had been delivered prior to these
meetings. On the basis of its findings of fact, the district court held that Special Agent Cote had
not substantially complied with the IRS warning regulations. It suppressed all evidence gathered by
the government in the course of the interviews, including both the Embassy corporate records and any
evidence procured after Jobin had been fully informed of his rights on June 19, 1973. The government
raises several claims on appeal. First, it challenges the district court’s findings that Agent Cote
failed to advise Jobin concerning the possible criminal nature of the investigation on the morning
of May 2, and that Cote failed to give any warnings on the afternoon of May 2. Second, it contends
that the omissions of Agent Cote were not so serious as to compel suppression under United States v.
Leahey, supra. Finally, it states that suppression should not extend to either the corporate records
nor to the evidence obtained from Jobin after he had been fully warned. The findings of the district
court after a hearing on a pre-trial motion to suppress are binding on appeal unless they are
clearly erroneous. United States v. Cepulonis, 530 F.2d 238, 244 (1st Cir. 1976); 3 C. Wright,
Federal Practice & Procedure § 678. As noted above, Agent Cote testified that he had given the
criminal warning at the outset of the morning meeting. The defendant and the other agent who was
present at this interview did not testify. Ordinarily, uncontradicted testimony which is not
inherently improbable or questionable should control the decision of the trial court. Dudley v.
United States, 428 F.2d 1196, 1202 (9th Cir. 1970). Here, although Agent Cote’s testimony was not
directly contradicted, there was sufficient evidence to support the district court’s contrary
finding. The interview on the morning of May 2 was tape recorded and the transcript of the recording
does not contain the contested warning. Second, Agent Cote admitted on cross-examination that he was
testifying essentially as to his habit of reading the warnings before an interview, and not from any
specific recollection of his actions on May 2. The finding of the district court that Agent Cote
failed to give the criminal warning is not clearly erroneous. The other contested factual finding
presents a more difficult question on appeal. Not only did Agent Cote testify that he gave the
required NAR Pub. 120 warnings at the outset of the afternoon meeting, but the Special Agent who
accompanied him also testified in corroboration. Unlike that of Agent Cote, the second agent’s
testimony was unimpeached on cross-examination. On the contrary, he was able to accurately remember
the content of all the NAR Pub. 120 warnings and stated that he was testifying from his
recollection. We recognize that the credibility of witnesses is peculiarly within the competence of
the trial court. United States v. Montos, 421 F.2d 215, 219 n. 1 (5th Cir. 1970), cert. denied, 397
U.S. 1022, 90 S.Ct. 1262, 25 L.Ed.2d 532 (1970). Here, however, we are firmly convinced that a
mistake has been made, see United States v. Gypsum Co., 333 U.S. 364, 395, 68 S.Ct. 525, 541, 92
L.Ed. 746, 765 (1948); Welch & Corr Construction Corp. v. Wheeler, 470 F.2d 140, 141 (1st Cir.
1972), due in part to the peculiar history of this finding of fact. We conclude that the district
court must have overlooked the testimony of the second witness to the afternoon meeting when
drafting this finding, and hold that the finding that there were no warnings given before the
afternoon meeting must be vacated as clearly erroneous. The vacation of this finding of fact, while
helpful to the government, does not dispose of this appeal. Three issues remain: whether the
omission of the criminal and attorney warnings at the morning meeting of May 2 requires suppression
of the evidence gathered at that meeting; if so, whether the “fruit of the poisonous tree” doctrine
is applicable to suppress evidence gathered after adequate warnings had been given, and whether
corporate records should be suppressed. In this court’s initial decision in this area, United States
v. Leahey, supra, we found that, as a matter of due process, suppression of evidence was an
appropriate sanction to insure IRS compliance with its announced policy of warning individuals
investigated by Special Agents. Our two subsequent decisions, United States v. Bembridge, 458 F.2d
1262 (1st Cir. 1972), and United States v. Morse, 491 F.2d 149 (1st Cir. 1974), held that only a
breach of the “substance and spirit” of the IRS regulations, and not their literal form, would
warrant exclusion. United States v. Morse, supra at 156. The district court found that the omission
of the two warnings, together, constituted a significantly substantive violation of the purposes
underlying the IRS warning regulations, and merited the sanction of exclusion. We agree. As noted in
Leahey, supra, 434 F.2d at 8, the IRS promulgated the instant regulation as a response to the
Court’s request in Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U.S. 436, 86 S.Ct. 1602, 16 L.Ed.2d 694 (1966), for
“increasingly effective ways of protecting the rights of the individual while promoting efficient
enforcement of our criminal laws.” 384 U.S. at 467, 86 S.Ct. at 1624, 16 L.Ed.2d at 720. As such,
the warnings were “designed to protect the rights and immunities of potential criminal defendants”,
Morse, supra, 491 F.2d at 156, from being inadvertently and unknowingly waived. The district court
found that the warning concerning the right to consult with an attorney was an important protection:
“[A] criminal tax matter is one in which the services of an attorney at an early stage are most
important. The intricate maze that comprises our tax law cannot be navigated without skilled
counsel, and, even then, the footing is oft-times slippery.” Just as importantly, the omission of
the criminal warning may seriously affect the taxpayer’s decision whether to waive his Fifth
Amendment rights. Many tax violations have both criminal and civil consequences. Logically, a
taxpayer might waive the privilege to remain silent during a civil investigation for fear the
invocation of the privilege would provoke a criminal investigation. By omitting the two warnings,
Special Agent Cote failed to convey to Jobin the substance and spirit of the NAR Pub. 120 warnings.
Exclusion of the evidence gathered at the morning meeting on May 2 is warranted. The district court
found that not only the evidence obtained directly in the morning meeting should be suppressed, but
also all evidence obtained from Jobin in subsequent meetings. It stated, “[t]he warnings given to
the defendant about counsel at the interviews subsequent to the one of May 2 were too little and too
late.” The district court was, of course, basing its analysis on its finding that no warnings had
been given before the afternoon meeting of May 2. As noted above, this finding has been vacated.
Thus, we begin our discussion of whether the “fruit of the poisonous tree” doctrine should apply so
as to exclude evidence acquired in the later meetings from a different factual premise. This court
has never decided whether the “fruit of the poisonous tree” doctrine should apply in principle to
violations of the IRS self-imposed warning regulations. But cf. Morse, supra, 491 F.2d at 156. One
other court has assumed that the doctrine applies, see United States v. Sourapas, 515 F.2d 295, 299
(9th Cir. 1975). For the purposes of this case, we shall assume its applicability in principle.
Although there are no cases analyzing exclusion of indirect evidence obtained following a violation
of IRS warning regulations, we think there is a close analogy in cases concerning the admissibility
of confessions obtained subsequent to an inadmissible confession. See, e. g., Harrison v. United
States, 392 U.S. 219, 88 S.Ct. 2008, 20 L.Ed.2d 1047 (1968); Darwin v. Connecticut, 391 U.S. 346, 88
S.Ct. 1488, 20 L.Ed.2d 630 (1968); United States v. Bayer, 331 U.S. 532, 67 S.Ct. 1394, 91 L.Ed.
1654 (1947); Knott v. Howard, 511 F.2d 1060 (1st Cir. 1975). In both situations, the “derived”
evidence is the defendant’s statement (or records) made at some time subsequent to the primary
violation. The issue of whether the subsequent statement is “tainted” cannot be resolved by inquiry
into possible or actual independent sources for the “derived” evidence — as is possible with
physical evidence obtained through information generated in an inadmissible confession or an illegal
search. Perhaps our own decision, Knott v. Howard, supra, is most clearly on point for the first
confession there was rendered inadmissible not because the trial court found it to be coerced, but
because it was obtained in violation of the rule in Escobedo v. Illinois, 378 U.S. 478, 84 S.Ct.
1758, 12 L.Ed.2d 977 (1964). Id. at 1061. We found the appropriate inquiry to be “whether the
conditions that rendered the earlier confessions inadmissible carried over to invalidate the
subsequent one.” Id. In addition to the nature of the primary violation, the particular criteria
cited include the temporal proximity of the two confessions and the voluntary nature of the second
confession. Cf. Brown v. Illinois 422 U.S. 590, 603-04, 95 S.Ct. 2254, 2261-2262, 45 L.Ed.2d 416,
427 (1975). Applying these principles to the ease at bar, we find that the evidence derived from the
meetings between the IRS Special Agents and Jobin at the afternoon meeting on May 2 and on
subsequent occasions should not be suppressed. The evidence presented at the suppression hearing
shows that the omissions in the warnings at the morning meeting were a result of a good faith,
negligent failure on the part of Agent Cote. While the divergence from the requirements was
substantial, there were no aggravating circumstances present. See United States v. Maciel, 351
F.Supp. 817 (D.R.I.1972) (Special Agent advised taxpayer against consulting an attorney). Further,
although the afternoon meeting closely followed the misconduct of the morning interview, it occurred
at a different place — the taxpayer’s home — and followed a hiatus of several hours during which the
taxpayer was undisturbed by IRS agents. The final criterion, the voluntary nature of the defendant’s
statements, is a point of contention between the parties. The government emphasizes Jobin’s
cooperative attitude throughout the investigation. Appellee claims that he had been committed to an
irreversible course of conduct at the defective morning interview: he had no practical choice but to
continue cooperating with the IRS after receiving full warnings. While noting that Jobin was
possibly under some psychological pressure, cf. United States v. Bayer, supra, 331 U.S. at 540, 67
S.Ct. at 1398, 91 L.Ed. at 1660, because of his substantial admissions at the morning meeting, we
cannot find such pressure significant enough to be dispositive. Id. at 540-41, 67 S.Ct. at 1398, 91
L.Ed. at 1660. Finally, we find that the principles underlying Leahey, promotion of uniform conduct
on the part of IRS Agents and vindication of the taxpayer’s right to rely on the published
statements of the IRS, 434 F.2d at 10, would not be served by the exclusion of derived evidence in
this case. These interests are adequately protected by suppression of the evidence gained at the
morning meeting. Suppression of further evidence, despite the subsequent effort to warn Jobin fully
of his rights, would serve no independent purpose.


