**gold_text:**
It is plaintiff’s assertion that it was error for the District Court to deny a motion to suppress
evidence derived from the search warrants. Applying the test indicated in Aguilar v. Texas, 378 U.S.
108, 84 S.Ct. 1509, 12 L.Ed.2d 723 (1964) as clarified by Spinelli v. United States, 393 U.S. 410,
89 S.Ct. 584, 21 L.Ed.2d 637 (1968), we approve the action of the District Court.

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
Although the case primarily concerns the application of Ill.Rev.Stats. Ch. 38, § 28-1(a) (10) with
respect to the First Amendment, reference cases such as 393 U.S. 410 and 378 U.S. 108 provide
critical insights into the broader constitutional issues. In 393 U.S. 410, the principle of
assessing the warrant's probable cause was significantly expounded, clarifying that judicial
interpretation must comply strictly with constitutional safeguards to prevent unwarranted
intrusions, paralleling the need to meticulously judge the circumstances surrounding Angelini's
activities.  Moreover, in 378 U.S. 108, the Court emphasized the necessity of specific, credible
evidence in affidavits supporting warrant issuance, which directly relates to the rigorous need for
factual substantiation in judicial scrutiny of Angelini's operations. Applying these precedents
ensures a balanced approach in upholding statutory mandates while respecting constitutional
freedoms.   Thus, the dissemination of information, when contextualized within professional
gambling, warrants regulation without inherently infringing upon constitutional rights. Both
referenced cases underscore the importance of calibrated judicial processes in maintaining the
delicate balance between law enforcement prerogatives and protected freedoms.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
  The questions presented in these reference cases involve the constitutional requirements for
obtaining a state search warrant and the applicability of a state statute regulating the
dissemination of gambling information.  In the case of 378 U.S. 108, the Supreme Court held that a
search warrant issued without probable cause is unconstitutional. The Court stated that the Fourth
Amendment requires that a search warrant be issued only upon a showing of probable cause, and that
the warrant must particularly describe the place to be searched and the persons or things to be
seized.  In the case of 393 U.S. 410, the Supreme Court held that a state statute regulating the
dissemination of gambling information is unconstitutional under the First Amendment. The Court
stated that the statute was overly broad and that it prohibited the dissemination of information
that was protected by the First Amendment.  The case at bar presents a similar issue, as it involves
the applicability of a state statute regulating the dissemination of gambling information. However,
unlike the case of 393 U.S. 410, the statute at issue in this case is not overly broad and does not
prohibit the dissemination of information that is protected by the First Amendment.  In this case,
the defendant, Angelini, was convicted of violating the Illinois gambling law by transmitting
information about sporting events to bookmakers and gamblers. The evidence showed that Angelini
transmitted the information for the purpose of facilitating gambling, and that he knowingly
transmitted the information to persons engaged in gambling activities.  The issue in this case is
whether the Illinois gambling law is unconstitutional under the First Amendment. The court must
determine whether the law is overly broad and whether it prohibits the dissemination of information
that is protected by the First Amendment.  In conclusion, the case at bar presents a similar issue
to the case of 393 U.S. 410, but with a different outcome. The Illinois gambling law is not
unconstitutional under the First Amendment, as it does not prohibit the dissemination of information
that is protected by the First Amendment.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-finetuned:***
  We do not agree with plaintiff’s contention that the evidence obtained in the course of a search
warrant issued under 18 U.S.C. § 2516(1) is inadmissible because the warrant was issued without
probable cause. See Spinelli v. United States, 393 U.S. 410, 89 S.Ct. 584, 21 L.Ed.2d 637 (1969);
Aguilar v. Texas, 378 U.S. 108, 84 S.Ct. 1509, 12 L.Ed.2d 723 (1964). We also do not agree with
plaintiff’s contention that the search warrant was invalid because it was issued without probable
cause. See Spinelli v. United States, 393 U.S. 410, 89 S.Ct. 584, 21 L.Ed.2d 637 (1969); Aguilar v.
Texas, 378 U.S. 108, 84 S.Ct. 1509, 12 L.Ed.2d 723 (1964). See also, United States v. Lookretis, 385
F.2d 487, 489 (7 Cir., 1967), vacated on other grounds, 390 U.S. 338, 88 S.Ct. 1097, 19 L.Ed.2d 1219
(1968). Finally, we do not agree with plaintiff’s contention that the search warrant was invalid
because it was issued without a showing of necessity. See Spinelli v. United States, 393 U.S. 410,
89 S.Ct. 584, 21 L.Ed.2d 637 (1969); Aguilar v. Texas, 378 U.S. 108, 84 S.Ct. 1509, 12 L.Ed.2d 723
(1964). See also, United States v. Lookretis, 385 F.2d 487, 489 (7 Cir., 1967), vacated on other
grounds, 390 U.S. 338, 88 S.Ct. 1097, 19 L.Ed.2d 1219 (1968). We have considered all of plaintiff’s
contentions and reject them. We affirm the judgment of the District Court. We are of the opinion
that the transmission of information as to wagers, betting odds, or changes in betting odds by
telephone, as done by plaintiff, is a violation of the Illinois statute. We


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['378 U.S. 108', '393 U.S. 410']

***short_citations_0:*** 378 U.S. 108

Mr. Justice Goldberg delivered the opinion of the Court. This case presents questions concerning the constitutional requirements for obtaining a state search warrant. Two Houston police officers applied to a local Justice of the Peace for a warrant to search for narcotics in petitioner's home. In support of their application, the officers submitted an affidavit which, in relevant part, recited that: “Affiants have received reliable information from a credible person and do believe that heroin, marijuana, barbiturates and other narcotics and narcotic paraphernalia are being kept at the above described premises for the purpose of sale and use contrary to the provisions of the law.” The search warrant was issued. In executing the warrant, the local police, along with federal officers, announced at petitioner’s door that they were police with a warrant. Upon hearing a commotion within the house, the officers forced their way into the house and seized petitioner in the act of attempting to dispose of a packet of narcotics. At his trial in the state court, petitioner, through his attorney, objected to the introduction of evidence obtained as a result of the execution of the warrant. The objections were overruled and the evidence admitted. Petitioner was convicted of illegal possession of heroin and sentenced to serve 20 years in the state penitentiary. On appeal to the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals, the conviction was affirmed, 172 Tex. Cr. R. 629, 362 S. W. 2d 111, affirmance upheld on rehearing, 172 Tex. Cr. R. 631, 362 S. W.

***short_citations_1:*** 393 U.S. 410

Mb. Justice Harlan delivered the opinion of the Court. William Spinelli was convicted under 18 U. S. C. i 1952 of traveling to St. Louis, Missouri, from a nearby Illinois suburb with the intention of conducting gambling activities proscribed by Missouri law. See Mo. Rev. Stat. § 563.360 (1959). At every appropriate stage in the proceedings in the lower courts, the petitioner challenged the constitutionality of the warrant which authorized the FBI search that uncovered the evidence necessary for his conviction. At each stage, Spinelli’s challenge was treated in a different way. At a pretrial suppression hearing, the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri held that Spinelli lacked standing to raise a Fourth Amendment objection. A unanimous panel of the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit rejected the District Court’s ground, a majority holding further that the warrant was issued without probable cause. After an en banc rehearing, the Court of Appeals sustained the warrant and affirmed the conviction by a vote of six to two. 382 F. 2d 871. Both the majority and dissenting en banc opinions reflect a most conscientious effort to apply the principles we announced in Aguilar v. Texas, 378 U. S. 108 (1964), to a factual situation whose basic characteristics have not been at all uncommon in recent search warrant cases. Believing it desirable that the principles of Aguilar should be further explicated, we granted certiorari, 390 U. S. 942, our writ being later limited to the question of the

**prev_text:**
DUFFY, Senior Circuit Judge. The principal issue for us to decide in this case is whether
Ill.Rev.Stats. Ch. 38, § 28-1(a) (10), which forbids knowing telephone transmission of “information
as to wagers, betting odds, or changes in betting odds”, may, consistently with freedom of speech,
be applied to a telephone subscriber who does not accept wagers but supplies odds quotations to
bookmakers and gamblers, so as to bring him within 18 U.S.C. § 1084(d), which requires the
termination of telephone service used for interstate transmission of gambling information “in
violation of * * * State * * * law.” Plaintiff filed complaint against the Illinois Bell Telephone
Company (111. Bell) alleging he had received a notice from the defendant that plaintiff’s telephone
service would be terminated on April 8, 1968, pursuant to the request of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation and the United States Attorney. Jurisdiction was based on 28 U.S.C. § 1331. The
complaint asked for a temporary restraining order and for preliminary and permanent injunctions
forbidding the termination of the telephone service. A temporary restraining order was entered on
April 5, 1968. Leave was granted to the United States to intervene as a defendant. Evidence was
taken on four court days. The temporary restraining order was dissolved on May 3, 1968 after which
plaintiff applied for the convening of a three-judge court. On June 13, 1968, the District Court
denied the application . for the three-judge court and overruled the motion for a preliminary
injunction. It then entered judgment for the defendant and dismissed the complaint. For many years,
plaintiff Angelini operated a business known as “Angel and Kaplan Sports News Service”, with
headquarters on North Clark Street in Chicago. A preliminary activity was to prepare and sell to a
group of subscribers, a list or schedule of coming sport events. Each sports schedule has printed
boxes left blank allowing for the insertion of other information. The practice followed was that
shortly before any of the events took place, the subscriber would telephone Mr. Angelini in Chicago.
If a caller properly identified himself such as by using a code name or number, either plaintiff or
one of his employees would permit the caller to listen to a recorded message which had been prepared
either by plaintiff or under his direction. These recordings contained information which could be
entered in the blank spaces on the printed list which had theretofore been distributed. Plaintiff’s
attorney insists that her client used the telephone only to express an opinion as to the relative
strength of teams engaged in athletic contests, and that such use was not in violation of 111.
Rev.Stats. Ch. 38, § 28-1 (a) (10). If such section is held to be applicable, plaintiff insists that
it offends the First Amendment, United States Constitution. It seems advisable to set forth one of
the recordings which is typical of those usually used: “Good morning. In the NBA playoff for tonight
Boston will be at Detroit at 7:00 o’clock, that is, Boston at Detroit. Boston is one point. The
total number is 231. For the exhibition baseball, Detroit is one twenty, Pittsburgh one forty, the
Yankees are one twenty, St. Louis is one forty, San Francisco is a dollar and a half. The Cubs are
one twenty, Philadelphia is one forty and the White Sox are one-twenty.. In the hockey for tonight I
am only using one game, that is Chicago at Detroit at 7:00 o’clock on TV, that is Chicago at
Detroit. Detroit is a straight five to seven over Chicago. If you miss anything, just hold on,
please.” A witness from the FBI testified that the information transmitted in the recording was the
odds on sporting events mentioned. Thus, with reference to baseball games “The Cubs are one twenty”
which meant that the Chicago Cubs were favored by odds of 6-5 (i. e., $1.20.-$1.00). Quotations
which were given by Angelini concerned baseball, basketball, football, hockey but not horse racing.
The plaintiff did not himself place or accept bets or wagers. Ill.Rev.Stats., Ch. 38, § 28-1 (a)
(10) provides that it is unlawful to transmit by telephone “information as to wagers, betting odds,
or changes in betting odds.” In order to avoid applying this statute to information protected by the
First Amendment, it has been limited by court decisions to the “rapid” transmission of either actual
wagers, betting odds or changes in betting odds to or by persons engaged directly or indirectly in
gambling operations, a construction which preserves the freedom of speech but does not hinder the
legislative purpose of suppressing gambling. Kelly v. Illinois Bell Telephone Co., and United States
of America; Kelly v. Western Union Telegraph Co., and United States of America, 325 F.2d 148, 152 (7
Cir., 1963); Telephone News System, Inc. v. Illinois Bell Telephone Company, 210 F.Supp. 471
(N.D.Ill., 1962), 220 F.Supp. 621, 639 (N.D.Ill., 1963), aff’d mem. 376 U.S. 782, 84 S.Ct. 1134, 12
L.Ed.2d 83 (1964). It was shown in the case at bar that the transmission was “rapid” in that
plaintiff distributed printed forms with blank spaces to be filled in with late information supplied
by telephone, and that such information was intended to be received and was received by persons
engaged in gambling activities. Horace Boone testified that he had been a bookmaker in Petersburg,
Virginia, and that during the past seven or eight years he frequently had placed long distance calls
to plaintiff, Angelini’s telephone number in Chicago, and that he did so in order to obtain odds for
use in his bookmaking. He paid $50 a week for this service in addition to the charge for the printed
schedules. Boone was known to Angelini as “Antioch” and he testified that this name purported to
identify the town in Illinois from which he was calling. Other geographical names appearing on the
list of plaintiff’s subscribers included “Cicero,” “Decatur,” “Des Plaines,” “Maywood,” “Lockport,”
“Peoria,” “Skokie,” “Rock Island” and “Quincy,” all of which are the names of cities or communities
in Illinois. Most, if not all of those calling from these stations, called from locations beyond the
state limits of Illinois. Pursuant to warrants, FBI agents conducted a search of plaintiff’s
premises on March 28, 1968, and again on April 4, 1968. Plaintiff argues that Ill.Rev.Stats. Ch. 38,
§ 28-1 (a) (10) does not apply. This section reads, in part: “(a) A person commits gambling when he:
(10) knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds, or changes in betting odds by
telephone * * * or knowingly installs or maintains equipment for the transmission or receipt of such
information ; except that nothing in this subdivision (10) prohibits transmission or receipt of such
information for use in news reporting of sporting events or contests.” The testimony of Boone and
Levine shows that plaintiff’s information was knowingly transmitted to professional bookmakers
(Boone) and gamblers (one Harry S. Levine). Rapid transmission of plaintiff’s information was also
shown by Boone’s testimony that he would call as often as three times a day for “late changes.”
Also, during a football season, Levine would call as many as eight times a week. Furthermore, the
plaintiff testified that whenever he felt odds on a particular sporting event had changed, he would
change the worded message even though there was as little as an hour remaining before the event. We
think the dissemination of information as was done by plaintiff to bookmakers and gamblers in a form
primarily for use by them and of little value to the general public, is subject to the power of the
states to regulate professional gambling. “ ‘The nature of the materials is, of course, relevant as
an attribute of the defendant’s conduct, but the materials are thus placed in context from which
they draw color and character. A wholly different result might be reached in a different setting.’ ”
Ginzburg v. United States, 383 U.S. 463, 475, 86 S.Ct. 942, 950, 16 L.Ed.2d 31 (1965). We agree with
the conclusion of law of the District Court that plaintiff’s activities hereinbefore described
violated the provisions of Ill.Rev.Stat., Ch. 38, § 28~l(a) (10). It is clear that the dissemination
of such information is not, as plaintiff claims, a “constitutionally protected act.” Telephone News
System, Inc. v. Illinois Bell Telephone Co., supra, 220 F.Supp. at page 639. Plaintiff has raised
numerous additional points which we have considered and which we reject. We shall briefly comment on
several. Contrary to plaintiff’s brief, there was no admission by anyone that Angelini was the
subject of illegal eavesdropping, nor any indication that any evidence obtained thereby was used
before or during the trial. A letter from the Assistant United States Attorney stated “We have been
advised that the following listed individuals were not present at, or participated in, conversations
overheard in any electronic surveillance conducted by the FBI in Chicago: Donald Angelini aka Don
Angel.” Furthermore, as to the logs of four overhearings where Angelini’s name was mentioned and
which were examined by the trial court in camera, it appears that the latest of these was five years
old and had no bearing on the case at bar. It further appeared that no conversation of Angelini “was
at any time overheard by electronic surveillance.” We approve the action of the District Court in
denying an adversary hearing on this issue. Although making the assertion that regulation of the
dissemination of gambling information pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 1952 violates the First Amendment,
plaintiff has cited no cases to support that argument. In fact, this Court has held to the contrary.
United States v. Lookretis, 385 F.2d 487, 489 (7 Cir., 1967), vacated on other grounds, 390 U.S.
338, 88 S.Ct. 1097, 19 L.Ed.2d 1219 (1968). Plaintiff asserts his Fifth Amendment rights were
violated because he had to bring a civil action to enjoin the removal of his phones while a criminal
complaint was pending which involved the same use of the telephone service. A similar contention was
rejected in Telephone News System, Inc. v. Illinois Bell Telephone Co., 220 F.Supp. 621, 628
(N.D.Ill., 1963). Plaintiff contends that unpublished Illinois Bell tariffs may not be used as the
basis for violations of federal law, particularly 47 U.S.C. §§ 203, 501 and 502. This is a civil
action, therefore we do not address ourselves to the question of criminal penalties. However,
violations of unpublished tariffs have frequently been the basis for termination of telephone
service. Palma v. Powers, 295 F.Supp. 924, 931, 940 (N.D.Ill., 1969); McBride v. Western Union Tel.
Co., 171 F.2d 1 (9 Cir., 1948).


