**gold_text:**
This action clearly is ancillary to or in aid of the suit for “specific performance.” No right to
relief other than by way of an injunction is sought. “Such an injunction, as stated, except under
the Bankruptcy Act, no court of the United States can grant.” Dial v. Reynolds, 96 U. S. 340, 24 L.
Ed. 644; Hull v. Burr, 234 U. S. 712, 34 S. Ct. 892, 58 L. Ed. 1557.

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
The plaintiff argues that the city's diversion of funds contravenes the established legal principles
and statutes governing public utilities and special funds. Governed specifically by section 8008,
Rem. & Bal. Code of Wash., which mandates restrictions on how revenues may be allocated to special
funds, any deviation from this statutory framework could potentially invalidate the obligations of
the special fund. The essentials of maintaining the integrity of specific funds were also
underscored in Twichell v. Seattle, 106 Wash. 32, where the court emphasized adherence to statutory
provisions ensuring that funds are appropriately allocated and preserved for their intended
purposes.  Furthermore, as outlined in 34 S. Ct. 892, federal injunctions to restrain state
proceedings are heavily restricted, only permissible in bankruptcy-related cases. Here, the
plaintiff's prayer aligns with this principle, reinforcing that the issue of fund integrity is
confined to jurisdictional lines, echoing Swift v. Black Panther Oil & Gas Co., 244 F. 20 on the
precept of maintaining jurisdictional boundaries. This principle is again validated in the context
of federal and state court delineation as noted in 58 L. Ed. 1557, where judicial restraint is
critical to avoid jurisdictional conflicts.  Given these precedents and statutory mandates, the
plaintiff’s recourse is to ensure compliance within the structured boundaries of section 8008 and
related judicial interpretations, avoiding the overreach that could infringe upon the jurisdiction
of separate legal entities.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
 <answer>  The cases provided reference various legal precedents and statutes, including Slater v.
Emerson (19 How. 224), which established that a condition precedent cannot be performed without
proof of performance. The Bankruptcy Act of 1898 (30 Stat. 544, 546, 549, c. 541) was also
referenced, specifically section 11 and subdivisions 7 and 15 of § 2.  In Twichell v. Seattle (106
Wash. 32, 179 P. 127), the court held that the "due regard" clause of the statute (§ 8008, Rem. &
Bal. Code of Wash.) requires the city to set aside a fixed amount from the gross revenues of the
street railway system into the special fund. The court further held that the ordinance and bonds
provide for a preference in favor of the bonds and interest out of the gross revenues of the system.
The Supreme Court in Lang v. Choctaw, O. & G. R. Co. (160 F. 355) established that a court which
first acquires jurisdiction over a subject-matter or cause has the power to enforce its judgment or
decree and protect the title of those holding under it from every attempt to avoid or annul it.  In
this case, the controversy is distinct from that in the state court, and the scope and purpose of
each fund in litigation is fixed and limited. De La Vergne Ref. Mach. Co. v. Palmetto Brewing Co.
(C. C.) 72 F. 579; Knudsen v. F. T. & S. Bank, 245 F. 81, 157 C. C. A. 377.  As the cases
demonstrate, the prohibition in section 720, Rev. St. (Comp. St. § 1242) extends to parties engaged
in proceedings in state courts, and federal courts may not interfere by injunction or otherwise with
the proceedings of the state courts that have first acquired jurisdiction of the subject-matter.
The language employed by the Court of Appeals of the Third Circuit in Essanay Film Mfg. Co. v. Kane,
264 F. 959, has application to this case: "The sole purpose of the bill is to obtain an injunction
to prevent the defendant proceeding in the state court. The practical effect of such injunction
would be to enjoin the state court from proceeding in the action. Such an injunction, except


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['24 L. Ed. 644', '34 S. Ct. 892', '58 L. Ed. 1557']

***short_citations_0:*** 24 L. Ed. 644

at law in case. of failure to perform within the time stipulated. Slater v. Emerson, 19 How. 224. Additional authorities to show that a party bound to perform a condition precedent cannot sue on the contract without proof that he has- performed that condition, is scarcely necessary, as the principle has become elementary. Governeur v. Tillotson, 3 Edw. (N. Y.) Ch. 348. Conditions, says Story, may be either precedent or subsequent, but a condition precedent is one which must happen before either party becomes bound by the contract. Thus, if a person agrees to purchase a cargo of a certain ship at sea, provided the cargo proves to be of a particular quality, or pro vided the ship arrives before a certain time, or- at a particular port, eaph proviso is a condition precedent to the performance ' of such a contract; and unless the cargo proves_ to be of the stipulated quality, pr the ship arrives within the agreed time or at the specified port, no contract can possibly arise. Story, Contr. 88. Impossible conditions cannot be performed; and if a person contracts to do what at the time is absolutely impossible, the contract will not bind him, because no man can be obliged to perform an impossibility; but where the contract is to do a thing which is possible in itself, the performance is n.ot excused by the occurrence of an inevitable accident or other contingency, although it was not foreseen by the party, nor was within his

***short_citations_1:*** 34 S. Ct. 892

state court will not be binding upon the Port Tampa Company. As already mentioned, the specific prayer is that defendants may be restrained from asserting or claiming as trustees in bankruptcy, in any court or place, any right, title or interest in the property. There is a prayer for general relief, but it was pointed out by the Circuit Court of Appeals (207 Fed. Rep. 543, 544) that no right to relief other than by way of an injunction was brought to the attention of the District Court or of the Court of Appeals upon the hearing. The general praver should therefore be treated as abandoned. So far as the action already pending in the Florida court of equity is concerned, the case is clearly within § 720, Rev. Stat. (§265, Judicial Code, 36 Stat. 1162, c. 231): “ The writ of injunction shall not be granted by apy court of the United States to stay proceedings in any court of a State, except in cases- where such injunction may be authorized by any law .relating to proceedings in bank ruptcy.” The latter clause formerly had reference to § 5106, Rev. Stat. (§ 21 of the Bankruptcy Act of March 2, 1867, 14 Stat. 517, 526, c. 176); in the place of which we now have § 11 and sub-divisions 7 and 15 of § 2 of the Bankruptcy Act of July 1, 1898 (30 Stat. 544, 546, 549, c. 541). It is quite evident that the injunction sought by

***short_citations_2:*** 58 L. Ed. 1557

state court will not be binding upon the Port Tampa Company. As already mentioned, the specific prayer is that defendants may be restrained from asserting or claiming as trustees in bankruptcy, in any court or place, any right, title or interest in the property. There is a prayer for general relief, but it was pointed out by the Circuit Court of Appeals (207 Fed. Rep. 543, 544) that no right to relief other than by way of an injunction was brought to the attention of the District Court or of the Court of Appeals upon the hearing. The general praver should therefore be treated as abandoned. So far as the action already pending in the Florida court of equity is concerned, the case is clearly within § 720, Rev. Stat. (§265, Judicial Code, 36 Stat. 1162, c. 231): “ The writ of injunction shall not be granted by apy court of the United States to stay proceedings in any court of a State, except in cases- where such injunction may be authorized by any law .relating to proceedings in bank ruptcy.” The latter clause formerly had reference to § 5106, Rev. Stat. (§ 21 of the Bankruptcy Act of March 2, 1867, 14 Stat. 517, 526, c. 176); in the place of which we now have § 11 and sub-divisions 7 and 15 of § 2 of the Bankruptcy Act of July 1, 1898 (30 Stat. 544, 546, 549, c. 541). It is quite evident that the injunction sought by

**prev_text:**
NETERER, District Judge (after stating the facts as above). The rights for all parties to this
proceeding are fixed and limited by the provisions of sections 8005-8008, Rem. & Bal. Code of Wash.
Section 8005 authorizes the acquiring of a public utility. Section 8006 provides the method of
procedure when it is deemed advisable to purchase any public utility mentioned in 8005, and if in
the acquisition a general indebtedness is to be incurred: “Such proposition shall be adopted and
assented to by three-fifths of the qualified voters of the said city or. town voting at said
election.” Such proceedings were had by the city under its charter provisions and the sections of
the statute, supra, that ordinances were enacted for the purchase of the street railway lines of the
plaintiff company in which in Ordinance 39025 is the following provision: “Said bonds shall be an
obligation only against the special fund created and established in section 5 of this ordinance.”
Section 5 creates a special “Municipal Street Railway Bond Fund, 1919,” and provides for the payment
into this fund of the gross revenues of the street railway system, and in the form of the proposed
bonds set out in the ordinance appears “payable solely out of the special fund of the city of
Seattle known as the Municipal Street Railway .Bond Fund, 1919.” Section 8008, provides: “In
creating any such special fund * * * the common council * * * shall have due regard to the cost of
operation and maintenance of the plant or system * * * and shall not set aside into such special
fund a greater amount or proportion of the revenue and proceeds than in their judgment will be
.available over and above such cost of maintenance and operation. * * * ” By section 6, Ordinance
39025, it is provided that the city “does hereby irrevocably obligate and bind itself to pay into
such fund out of the gross revenues of the municipal street railway system the necessary amounts to
meet interest and principal payments upon the bonds as they mature, * * * and such fixed amounts out
of such gross revenues are hereby pledged to such semiannual payments of interest and such annual
payments of principal, and shall constitute a charge upon such gross revenues superior to all other
charges whatsoever, including charges for maintenance and operation.” The Supreme Court in Twichell
v. Seattle, 106 Wash. 32, at page 49, 179 P. 127, 130, speaking of the “due regard” clause of the
statute, says: “Whether or no't the ordinance and bonds provide for a preference in favor of the
bonds and interest out of the gross revenues of the system is unimportant to the integrity of the
obligations, as demands upon the special fund, because the latter part of section 8008 of the Code
covers the matter by providing as follows: “ ‘When any such special fund shall have been heretofore
or shall be hereafter created and any such obligation shall have been heretofore or shall hereafter
be issued against the same, * * * a fixed amount without regard to any fixed proportion, of revenue
shall be set aside and paid into said special fund as provided in the ordinance creating such fund,
and in case any city or town shall fail to thus set aside and pay said fixed proportion or amount as
aforesaid, the holder of any bond or warrant against such special fund may bring suit or action
against the city or town and compel such setting aside and payment.’ ” Having in mind the
limitations of section 8008 supra, which among other things provides, “The * * * corporate
authorities shall have power to create a special fund or funds for the sole purpose of defraying the
cost of such public utility or addition, betterment or extension thereto, into which special fund or
funds the * * * corporate authorities of such city or town may obligate and bind the city * * * to
set aside and pay a fixed proportion of the gross revenues of such public utility, * * * ” it seems
clear that the obligation of the ordinance, supra, is limited to the special fund. An examination of
the issue in the state court cause and the cause pending in this court show that the issues are
several, separate, and distinct. The provisions of the statute under which the utility was acquired
did not obligate the general fund of the city to the payment of any portion, and the obligation of
the city is distinctly limited to the special fund. Clearly the recourse of the plaintiff is to
maintain the integrity of the special fund. It is stated that the design and purpose of the
plaintiffs in the state court, defendants here, is to preserve the general fund from invasion for
the purpose of repleting the special fund for any purpose. The prayer of the complaint in the state
court, it is stated, is out of harmony with the contentions of plaintiff at bar. The prayer in the
complaint usually controls as to the relief demanded within jurisdictional facts well pleaded. An
examination of the complaint, I think, discloses that the only facts well pleaded within the
jurisdiction of that court are facts going to the integrity of the general fund and cannot be said
to be an attack upon the integrity of the special fund devoted to the purposes which have been
pleaded within the limitations of section 8008 as construed and applied by the Supreme Court in
Twichell v. Seattle, supra. The payment of the interest by the city of Seattle maintaining the
integrity of the plaintiff’s security has removed the contingency which no doubt caused the
plaintiff to move in this cause, and this was done without any order or suggestion from this court.
The special, and general funds are as separate and distinct as are two separate sections of land. A
mortgage on one may not he said to cover the other. An action against one may not be said to involve
both. To maintain the integrity of the special fund as pledged to plaintiff’s security the action is
instituted in this court. The existence, maintenance, and integrity of the special fund is provided
by the sections of statute and ordinances supra, and is supplied from the revenues of the Seattle
Municipal Railway. The motion of the state court is to maintain and preserve the integrity of the
general fund, which is supplied by general taxation, the disbursement of which is provided by
statute, from which it is alleged the defendant city without authority has diverted many thousand
dollars to the special fund and is threatening to divert further sums to the special fund without
first submitting the matter of payment to the electors of the city. The state court had jurisdiction
of the subject-matter of the general fund and of the real parties; whether this plaintiff is a,
proper or necessary party it is not necessary here to decide. Section 720, Rev. St. (Comp. St. §
1242): “The writ of injunction shall not he granted by any court of the United States to stay
proceedings in any court of a state, except in eases where such injunction may bo authorized by any
law relating to proceedings in bankruptcy.” Federal courts may not interfere by injunction or
otherwise with the proceedings of the state courts which have first acquired jurisdiction of the
subject-matter. Swift v. Black Panther Oil & Gas Co., 244 F. 20, 156 C. C. A. 448. In Lang v.
Choctaw, O. & G. R. Co., 160 F. 355, at page 359, 87 C. C. A. 307, 311, the rule is thus stated:
“The court which first acquires jurisdiction * * * by the due commencement of a suit in that court,
from which it appears that it is, or will become, necessary to a complete determination of the
controversy involved, or to the enforcement of the judgment or decree therein, to seize, charge with
a lien, sell, or exercise other like dominion over it, thereby withdraws that property from tho
jurisdiction of every other court and entitles the former to retain the control of it requisite to
effectuate its judgment or decree in the suit free from the interference of every other tribunal.
Farmers’ Loan & Trust Company v. Lake Street Railroad Co., 177 U. S. 51, 61, 20 Sup. Ct. 564, 44 L.
Ed. 667. * * * Tho jurisdiction of a court over a subject-matter or a cause once lawfully acquired
includes the power to enforce its judgment or decree, and to protect the title of those holding
under it,from every attempt to avoid or annul it. Chicot Co. v. Sherwood, 148 U. S. 529, 533, 534,
13 Sup. Ct. 695, 37 L. Ed. 546.” The controversy in this court is distinct from that in the state
court. The scope and purpose of each fund in litigation is fixed and limited. De La Vergne Ref.
Mach. Co. v. Palmetto Brewing Co. (C. C.) 72 F. 579; Knudsen v. F. T. & S. Bank, 245 F. 81, 157 C.
C. A. 377. Comity and the necessity of avoiding conflict between state and federal courts where
possible imperatively demands that such power shall be exercised with the greatest caution, and only
after the most careful consideration and abiding conviction that its exercise cannot he avoided
under the rules of law enunciated by the courts of last resort. Jackson v. Parkersburg & O. V. Ry.
Co. (D. C.) 233 F. 764: “The right must he clear, the injury impending, and threatened so as to be
averted only by the protecting preventive process of injunction.” Truly v. Wanzer et al., 5 How.
141, 143, 12 L. Ed. 88; Irwin v. Dixion, 9 How. 10, 13 L. Ed. 25. The Court of Appeals of the Fifth
Circuit in Oliver v. Parlin et al., 105 F. 272, at page 276, 45 C. C. A. 200, 203, said: “An
examination of the cases * * * will show that in every well-considered ease, when an injunction
restraining already instituted proceedings in a state court has been issued by a United States
court, it was either based on a decree or judgment of the United States court which it was necessary
and proper to enforce; or, if issued prior to judgment or decree, it was directed against a party
who, after jurisdiction over him and the eause was fully vested, had resorted to proceedings in the
state court necessarily conflicting with, if not ousting, tho jurisdiction of tho United States
court. See Shoemaker v. French, Fed. Cas. No. 12,800; Sharon v. Terry (C. C.) 36 F. 337; Mutual Life
Ins. Co. v. University of Chicago (C. C.) 6 F. 443; Railroad Co. v. Kuteman, 4 C. C. A. 503, 54 F.
551; Abeel v. Culberson (C. C.) 56 F. 333; President v. Merritt (C. C.) 59 F. 7.” The Court of
Appeals of this circuit, in Mills v. Provident L. & T. Co., 100 F. 344-347, 40 C. C. A. 394,
indorsed the sentiment that section 720, Rev. St., was passed to prevent unseemly conflict of courts
of different sovereigns exercising concurrent jurisdiction over the same territory, and that the
purpose of the statute is so important that a liberal construction should be given to accomplish it.
The prohibition extends to parties engaged in proceedings in state courts. Cœur d’ Alene Ry. & Nav.
Co. v. Spalding, 93 F. 280, 35 C. C. A. 295, writ denied, 174 U. S. 801, 19 S. Ct. 884, 43 L. Ed.
1187; Peek v. Jenness, 7 How. 612, 12 L. Ed. 841. Also, orders entered by the federal court which
necessarily have that effect. W. U. T. Co. v. L. & N. R. Co., 201 F. 919, 120 C. C. A. 257; Haines
v. Carpenter, 91 U. S. 254, 23 L. Ed. 345. The language employed by the Court, of Appeals of the
Third Circuit in Essanay Film Mfg. Co. v. Kane, 264 F. 959, at page 960, has application to this
case: “The sole purpose of the bill is to obtain an injunction to prevent the defendant proceeding
in the state court. The practical effect of such injunction would be to enjoin the state court from
proceeding in the action. Such an injunction, except under the Bankruptcy Act (Comp. St. § 9585 et
seq.), no court of the United States can grant. With this exception it is expressly forbidden by
statute. Judicial Code, § 265; Diggs v. Wolcott, 4 Cranch, 179, 2 L. Ed. 587; Dial v. Reynolds, 96
U. S. 340, 24 L. Ed. 644. The ban of the statute is not evaded by directing the injunction to the
litigating party. Peek v. Jenness, 7 How. 612, 12 L. Ed. 841; Cœur d’Alene Ry. & Nav. Co. v.
Spalding, 93 F. 280, 35 C. C. A. 295. This rule is not modified by Simon v. Southern Railway Co.,
236 U. S. 115, 35 Sup. Ct. 255, 59 L. Ed. 492. The crux of that decision, as we understand it, is
embodied in the following sentence appearing on page 124 of 236 U. S., on page 258 of 35 Sup. Ct.
(59 L. Ed. 492): ‘But when the litigation has ended and a final judgment has been obtained—and when
the plaintiff endeavors to use such judgment—■ a new state of facts, not within * * * the statute,
may arise.’ ”


