**gold_text:**
In the end, the police officers’ instincts were correct, as Ferguson, a convicted felon, was indeed
in possession of an illegal weapon. But those instincts were based not on any articulable, objective
facts suggestive of unlawful conduct, but on, at best, an “inchoate and unparticularized suspicion
or ‘hunch’ ” of criminal activity. Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, 27, 88 S.Ct. 1868, 20 L.Ed.2d 889
(1968). In view of the errors and inconsistencies in the record, I am not persuaded that the
officers stopped Ferguson because of excessively tinted windows, I am not persuaded that the windows
were illegally tinted (or that they even seemed to be so), and I am not persuaded that the officers
saw a metal crack stem in plain view in the center console of the car. Rather, I believe this was
nothing other than a random stop. Accordingly, the gun and other physical evidence will be
suppressed. See United States v. Vasquez, 638 F.2d 507, 520 (2d Cir.1980) (“[I]nvestigatory stops
cannot be made completely at random ... or at the ‘unfettered discretion of officers in the field.’
”) (citations omitted).

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
Given the inconsistencies and contradictions present in the officers' testimonies and their reports,
the Government has failed to establish that the officers had a reasonable suspicion to justify the
initial stop of Ferguson's vehicle. According to Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, reasonable suspicion
must be based on specific and articulable facts, not merely on an inchoate and unparticularized
suspicion or hunch.  Moreover, the officers' subsequent arrest of Ferguson appears lacking in
probable cause. As referenced in 638 F.2d 507, the officers' observations must provide concrete
reasons to believe a crime is being committed. Here, the assorted and conflicting accounts related
to the tinted windows, the license plate search, and the discovery of drug paraphernalia undermine
the credibility of the arrest.  Therefore, considering the totality of the circumstances, including
the lack of credible evidence of reasonable suspicion and probable cause, the motion to suppress the
gun and other physical evidence is granted.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
  In the case of Ferguson v. United States, the court held that the stop and arrest of the defendant
were unconstitutional because the police officers lacked reasonable suspicion and probable cause for
the stop and arrest. The court found that the officers' testimony was riddled with inconsistencies
and contradictions, including the fact that Glemaud testified that he saw a metal stem in the middle
console, while Anderson testified that he did not see such a stem.  In Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1
(1968), the Supreme Court held that an officer may stop and frisk a person if he has a reasonable
suspicion that the person is engaged in criminal activity. However, in this case, the court found
that the officers did not have reasonable suspicion or probable cause to stop the defendant's
vehicle.  In United States v. Sanchez, 638 F.2d 507 (1981), the court held that an officer may make
an investigatory stop if he has a reasonable suspicion that the person is engaged in criminal
activity. However, in this case, the court found that the officers did not have reasonable suspicion
or probable cause to stop the defendant's vehicle.  The court also found that the officers' mistakes
and inconsistencies were not minor ones, but rather significant ones that affected important facts,
such as how many individuals were in the vehicle, whether a metal stem or a glass pipe or any
contraband was seen in the center console, and whether and when the officers made a radio
transmission or computer search.  Therefore, based on the evidence presented, the court finds that
the stop and arrest of the defendant were unconstitutional because the police officers lacked
reasonable suspicion and probable cause for the stop and arrest. The court grants the motion to
suppress the evidence recovered during the stop and arrest.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-finetuned:***
  Cf. Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, 22-23, 88 S.Ct. 1868, 20 L.Ed.2d 889 (1968) (holding that a police
officer’s “hunch” or “suspicion” is not enough to justify a stop or arrest, and that the officer
must be able to articulate specific facts that support his conclusion); United States v. Sanchez,
638 F.2d 507, 511-12 (2d Cir.1981) (finding that a stop based on a “hunch” or “suspicion” without
any articulable facts is unreasonable and violates the Fourth Amendment). The inconsistencies and
contradictions in the testimony and complaints, as well as the mistakes and errors, are sufficient
to raise a doubt about whether the officers had reasonable suspicion or probable cause to stop
Ferguson’s car or arrest him. In these circumstances, the burden of proof has not been met, and the
motion to suppress is granted. See, e.g., United States v. Muyet, 946 F.Supp. 302, 308
(S.D.N.Y.1996) (finding that the Government failed to meet its burden of proving that the stop and
arrest were supported by reasonable suspicion and probable cause, in part because the officers’
testimony was “inconsistent and contradictory” and because the officers “made no effort to
articulate specific facts that supported their conclusion”); United States v. Gutierrez, No. 99 Cr.
209 (WHP), 1999 WL 550213, at *3 (S.D.N.Y. July 28, 1999) (finding that the Government failed to
meet its burden of proving that the stop and arrest were supported by reasonable suspicion and
probable cause, in part because the officers’ testimony was “inconsistent and contradictory” and
because the officers “made no effort to articulate specific facts that supported their conclusion”);
United States v. Pena, 961 F.2d 333, 339 (2d Cir.1992) (finding that the Government failed to meet
its burden of proving that the stop and arrest were supported by reasonable suspicion and probable
cause, in part because the officers’ testimony was “inconsistent and contradictory” and because the
officers “made no effort to articulate specific facts that supported their conclusion”). The motion
to suppress is granted. See also United States v. Perea, 986 F.2d 639,


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['392 U.S. 1', '638 F.2d 507']

***short_citations_0:*** 392 U.S. 1

such circumstances, due weight must be given, not to his inchoate and unparticularized suspicion or “hunch,” but to the specific reasonable inferences which he is entitled to draw from the facts in light of his experience. Cf. Brinegar v. United States supra. IY. We must now examine the conduct of Officer McFadden in this case to determine whether his search and seizure of petitioner were reasonable, both at their in ception and as conducted. He had observed Terry, together with Chilton and another man, acting in a manner he took to be preface to a “stick-up.” We think on the facts and circumstances Officer McFadden detailed before the trial judge a reasonably prudent man would have been warranted in believing petitioner was armed and thus presented a threat to the officer’s safety while he was investigating his suspicious behavior. The actions of Terry and Chilton were consistent with McFadden’s hypothesis that these men were contemplating a daylight robbery — which, it is reasonable to assume, would be likely to involve the use of weapons — and nothing in their conduct from the time he first noticed them until the time he confronted them and identified himself as a police officer gave him sufficient reason to negate that hypothesis. Although the trio had departed the original scene, there was nothing to indicate abandonment of an intent to commit a robbery at some point. Thus, when Officer McFadden approached the three men gathered before the display window at Zucker’s store he had

***short_citations_1:*** 638 F.2d 507

floor apartment at 633 Grand Street was being used for the distribution of narcotics. Before Sanchez first appeared outside that address, the Mesas and Fernando Medina had been arrested in possession of cocaine — the Mesas immediately after leaving 633 Grand Street, and Fernando shortly after his wife had arrived home from that address. Sanchez was then observed entering 633 Grand Street empty-handed and leaving ten minutes later with a shopping bag. Lights were apparently still visible only on the fourth floor. The strength of the inference that Sanchez had visited the fourth floor apartment and obtained narcotics there very nearly, if not actually, established probable cause to arrest him for possession of narcotics. Unlike the defendant in Henry v. United States, supra, who picked up cartons in the neighborhood where a theft had occurred, Sanchez appeared to have obtained his recently acquired package from the precise apartment where drugs were being distributed. In any event, the officers’ suspicions fully justified an investigatory stop. Terry v. Ohio, supra. Their suspicions were not reasonably enhanced by the additional fact that Sanchez nervously backed away when approached by two men in plain clothes who backed their car up the street and hopped out to approach him. However, the officers were entitled to assess the significance of the events that followed. When the officers, neither of whom had drawn his gun, identified themselves to Sanchez and asked him from what apartment he had come, Sanchez responded in Spanish, which neither officer understood, dropped

**prev_text:**
MEMORANDUM DECISION CHIN, District Judge. On the night of April 5, 2000, defendant Kenneth Ferguson
was driving his car in a high-crime area of the Bronx when he was stopped by four police officers in
an unmarked car. The officers removed him from the car, searched him, and recovered a semi-automatic
pistol as well as drug paraphernalia. Ferguson, who has previously been convicted of a felony, was
thereafter indicted in this case for unlawful possession of a weapon. Ferguson moves to suppress the
gun and other physical evidence. An eviden-tiary hearing was held on January 4, 2001. For the
reasons that follow, the motion is granted. The following constitute my findings of fact and
conclusions of law. THE FACTS A. The Stop and Search On April 5, 2000, at approximately 9 p.m.,
Ferguson, a 33-year old African-American man, was driving his black 1996 Nissan Maxima, license
plate number BX592B, in the vicinity of Bush Street and Crestón Avenue in a high-crime area of the
Bronx. He was accompanied by one passenger, another African-American male, who was sitting in the
front passenger seat. Ferguson was driving in a lawful manner. He was not speeding, nor was he
driving erratically or in a suspicious manner. His car insurance and registration were in good
order. The car had tinted windows. Four police officers, Detectives Gle-maud, Anderson, and Jaime
and Sergeant Garcia, noticed Ferguson’s vehicle. Three were in plain clothes and one was in uniform;
all four were members of the New York Police Department’s Street Crimes Unit. After following
briefly, they turned on a flashing red light, stopped Ferguson’s vehicle, and pulled in behind it,
at an angle. Detective Glemaud approached Ferguson’s vehicle on the passenger side, and Detective
Anderson approached on the driver’s side. Glemaud gave Anderson a signal and, as a result, Anderson
asked Ferguson to step out of the vehicle. Ferguson did so, as did the passenger. Both were hand-
cuffed, placed under arrest, and searched. The detectives recovered a glass crack pipe and a .380
caliber semi-automatic pistol from Ferguson. The detectives also recovered (either from Ferguson or
from inside the vehicle) a 4$ by ]é inch metal “stem,” or “spoon,” a tool used in the smoking of
crack. The passenger was later released, but Ferguson was detained and charged with possession of
the gun. The Property Clerk’s Invoice described the glass pipe as “glass stem w/ residue,” but
described the metal stem only as “metal pipe,” without noting any visible residue. (GX 4). The
laboratory analysis report noted the presence of less than 1.0 grain of cocaine on both the glass
pipe and the metal stem. B. The ConMcts in the Evidence The police officers and the Government have
offered six at least partially conflicting versions or theories of what transpired on the night in
question. 1. The Criminal Court Complaint The day after the arrest, Detective Anderson swore to a
complaint that was filed with the Criminal Court in the Bronx. In the complaint, Anderson stated,
under oath, that he was informed by Detective Glemaud that Glemaud: observed defendant alone inside
a 1996 Nissan Maxima (N.Y. LIC BX592B) sitting in the driver’s seat of said vehicle, in custody and
control of a glass pipe containing white, rock-like residue in that it was on the middle console by
the front seat of said vehicle. (DX 1). 2. The Complaint in this Case A special agent of the Bureau
of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (“ATF”) filed a complaint in this case, based largely on his
conversations with two police officers. The complaint alleges, in substance, as follows: On April 5,
2000, the officers observed Ferguson’s vehicle with what “appeared to be illegally tinted windows.”
They began to follow the car and one of the officers “used the car radio to call in the license
plates,” and learned that “the license plates were supposed to be surrendered to the Department of
Motor Vehicles.” As a result of both the tinted windows and the status of the license plates, the
officers decided to pull the car over. They saw two persons in the car. One officer noticed a “crack
pipe on the center console.” The driver and the passenger were removed from the car and one of the
officers discovered the gun on the driver. The other officer “recovered the crack pipe from the
car.” 3. Glemaud’s Testimony Glemaud testified at the suppression hearing, in substance, as follows:
The officers pulled Ferguson over because of the excessively tinted windows only; the results of a
computer search of the plates did not become known until after the car had been stopped. (Tr. at 14,
77-78, 90-91; but see id. at 81, 82). Gle-maud initiated the stop, and although he had been involved
in other stops of cars for illegally tinted windows, this was the first time he had initiated such a
stop. (Id. at 85). The officers did not use their car radio and instead checked the plates on a
computer located in their vehicle. At some point, the officers learned that the “plates were
surrendered.” (Id.). Gle-maud approached on the passenger side, and as he did so, the front
passenger window came down. (Id. at 15). He then noticed in the middle console a metal rod, chaff-
like object with a metal groove, with a groove in the middle of it that contained a white powdery
residue. (Id. at 16); He recognized the metal object as a “spoon” or “stem” used to insert crack
cocaine into a tube or pipe for smoking. (Id. at 20). Because he saw the metal rod, Glemaud decided
to arrest the occupants of the car. He sent Anderson a signal, and Anderson removed the driver from
the car and placed him under arrest. At the same time, Glemaud removed the passenger, escorted him
to the rear of the vehicle, and hand-cuffed him. (Id. at 21). He frisked the passenger and then
frisked Ferguson. He removed a “glass stem” (of a type used for smoking crack) from Ferguson’s front
pants pocket. (Id. at 22). Anderson removed the gun from Ferguson’s rear pants pocket. (Id. at 25,
27). Glemaud told Anderson where the metal rod was located and Anderson recovered it. (Id. at 23).
4. Anderson’s Testimony Anderson testified at the suppression hearing, in substance, as follows: On
April 5, 2000, while the officers were riding in their unmarked car, Glemaud pointed out a car with
“tinted windows” that appeared to be tinted excessively. (Id. at 45, 46). The plates were “run” on
the computer in their car and the search “came back surrendered.” (Id. at 46-47). Only then did the
officers pull the car over. (Id. at 47). Anderson approached on the driver’s side and asked the
driver for his license, registration, and insurance card. Ferguson gave them to him. As he started
looking at the paperwork, Glemaud gave him a signal to arrest the driver. (Id. at 47-49). Anderson
told Ferguson to step out and when Ferguson did so, Anderson asked him if he had anything that he
was “not supposed to have.” Ferguson responded that “[fit’s in the car.” (Id. at 50). Anderson
handcuffed Ferguson and directed him to go to the back of the vehicle. Anderson then “began to
search the front part of the vehicle” and “[a]t that time, [he] didn’t find anything.” (Id.).
Anderson then searched Ferguson and re covered the gun. He also observed Gle-maud remove a glass
pipe from Ferguson’s front pants pocket. (Id. at 52). Anderson testified that “the metal rod was
taken from the vehicle,” but he did not say by whom. He was not asked who had recovered the metal
rod or when it was recovered. 5. The Government’s Theory at the Hearing At the hearing, the
Government offered and I received into evidence Government’s Exhibit 1, a printout from the
Department of Motor Vehicles showing the results of a search on Ferguson’s license plate, BX592B.
The report shows no irregularities with the registration or insurance, but reports that Ferguson’s
old plates (AB651X) were voluntarily surrendered on October 22, 1999. (See Tr. at 37). The
Government theorized at the hearing that a computer search on April 5, 2000, of plate number BX592B
would have shown that the old plates were surrendered. (Id. at 39). The Government suggested that
the officers ran the plate on April 5, 2000, saw the reference to “VOLUNTARY PLATE SURRENDER,” and
assumed (mistakenly but in good faith) that the reference applied to the current plates. 6. The
Government’s Post-Hearing Theory At the conclusion of the suppression hearing, the parties agreed to
leave the record open so that the Government could follow up on the issue of what a computer search
of plate number BX592B on April 5, 2000, would have shown. The parties thereafter entered into a
stipulation that NYPD computer records show, in substance, the following: On April 5, 2000, the
officers ran a query on plate BX825B on the computer in their car at 8:53:53 p.m. The response to
the query at 8:54:00 p.m. showed that plate BX825B was registered to a 1989 black two-door Honda
owned by one Chanwattee Chaltu and that these plates had been voluntarily surrendered. At 8:58:01
p.m., four minutes later, the officers ran a query on plate BX592B. The response at 8:58:06 p.m.
showed that plate BX592B was registered to a 1996 black four-door Nissan in the name of Kenneth
Ferguson and that the plates were valid. In its post-hearing letter brief, the Government theorizes
that the officers mistakenly ran the wrong plate number, BX825B, at 8:53:53 p.m., saw the response
that the plates had been surrendered, mistakenly believed in good faith that Ferguson’s plates
should have been surrendered, and therefore decided to stop the car. The Government further
theorizes that after Ferguson’s car was stopped, one of the officers ran the correct plate number,
but by then Glemaud and Anderson were already arresting Ferguson and his passenger. (Letter from the
Government of January 11, 2001, at 3). DISCUSSION A. Applicable Law 1. The Fourth Amendment The
Fourth Amendment guarantees “[t]he right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses,
papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures.” U.S. Const. amend. TV. The stop of
an automobile, “even if only for a brief period and for a limited purpose, constitutes a ‘seizure’
of ‘persons’ within the meaning” of the Fourth Amendment. Whren v. United States, 517 U.S. 806,
809-10, 116 S.Ct. 1769, 135 L.Ed.2d 89 (1996). Accordingly, “such stops must be justified by
probable cause or a reasonable suspicion, based on specific and articulable facts, of unlawful
conduct.” United States v. Scopo, 19 F.3d 777, 781 (2d Cir.1994) (internal quotations and citations
omitted); see also United States v. Muyet, 946 F.Supp. 302, 305 (S.D.N.Y.1996). Where the stop leads
to an arrest, a two-step inquiry is required: whether the stop is supported by “reasonable
suspicion,” and, if so, whether the arrest is supported by probable cause. See United States v.
Perca, 986 F.2d 683, 644 (2d Cir.1993) (“an encounter that began as a permissible Terry stop may
have ripened into an arrest, which must be supported by probable cause”). Of course, in some cases
the initial stop and the subsequent arrest may be based on the same set of circumstances. Police
officers may make a “brief, investigatory stop” when they have a “reasonable, articulable suspicion
that criminal activity is afoot.” Illinois v. Wardlow, 528 U.S. 119, 123, 120 S.Ct. 673, 145 L.Ed.2d
570 (2000). Although “reasonable suspicion” is a “less demanding standard” than probable cause, “at
least a minimal level of objective justification” is required, and the officers “must be able to
articulate more than an ‘inchoate and unparticularized suspicion or “hunch’ ” of criminal activity.”
Id. at 123-24, 120 S.Ct. 673 (quoting Terry v. Ohio, 392 U.S. 1, 27, 88 S.Ct. 1868, 20 L.Ed.2d 889
(1968)). Whether police officers had a reasonable suspicion that criminal activity was afoot is
determined by examining the “totality of the circumstances.” Diamondstone v. Macaluso, 148 F.3d 113,
124 (2d Cir.1998). “Probable cause arises when the police reasonably believe that an offense has
been or is being committed.” Scopo, 19 F.3d at 781 (internal quotations and citations omitted).
Probable cause and reasonable suspicion to stop and arrest a driver of a vehicle exist “[w]hen an
officer observes a traffic offense — however minor.” Id. at 782 (internal quotations and citations
omitted). Thus, courts have found that a violation of New York’s Vehicle and Traffic Law prohibiting
the operation of vehicles with excessively tinted windows provides the police with probable cause or
reasonable suspicion to stop a car. See Woods v. Candela, 921 F.Supp. 1140, 1144-45 (S.D.N.Y.1996)
(finding that defendant was properly stopped for excessively tinted windows, in violation of New
York law); United States v. Barber, 839 F.Supp. 193, 200 (W.D.N.Y.1993) (finding that excessively
tinted windows provides “probable cause to believe that a traffic violation was occurring, and to
justify [the police] in stopping the car”). In addition, under New York law, police officers may
arrest a person for a traffic violation committed in the officers’ presence. See Scopo, 19 F.3d at
778. The Supreme Court has held that the subjective intent of the police in stopping a vehicle is
not a factor when determining whether probable cause existed. See Whren, 517 U.S. at 813, 116 S.Ct.
1769. Thus, the “actual motivations of the individual officers involved” in the stop “play no role
in ordinary, probable cause Fourth Amendment analysis.” Id. Judge Newman has cautioned, however,
that, although courts have upheld the validity of “so-called ‘pretext’ arrest[s],” “we should not be
understood to be giving police officers carte blanche to skew their law enforcement activity against
any group that displeases them.” Scopo, 19 F.3d at 785 (Newman, J., concurring). 2. The Burden of
Proof A defendant seeking to suppress evidence recovered in a warrantless search must demonstrate
that, as an initial matter, he had a reasonable expectation of privacy in the place searched. See
Muyet, 946 F.Supp. at 309. A driver in lawful possession of a vehicle has such a reasonable
expectation of privacy. See id. (citing United States v. Ochs, 595 F.2d 1247, 1253 (2d Cir.1979)).
If this initial burden is met, the burden then shifts to the Government to demonstrate that the
search was within one of the exceptions to the requirement of a warrant. Perea, 986 F.2d at 639. One
such exception is a search incident to an arrest. Muyet, 946 F.Supp. at 309. If the arrest follows
an investigatory stop, the Government bears the burden of demonstrating both that there was
reasonable suspicion for the stop and probable cause for the arrest. Perea, 986 F.2d at 644-45;
United States v. Pena, 961 F.2d 333, 338-39 (2d Cir.1992); United States v. Gutierrez, No. 99 Cr.
209(WHP), 1999 WL 550213, at *3 (S.D.N.Y. July 28, 1999); United States v. Campbell, 959 F.Supp.
606, 613 (W.D.N.Y.1997). B. Application The Government contends that the police officers had
reasonable suspicion for stopping the car because the officers believed that the windows of
Ferguson’s car were excessively tinted, and the officers believed, mistakenly but in good faith,
that a computer search showed that his plates should have been surrendered. In addition, the
Government argues that once the officers stopped Ferguson’s ’ vehicle, they had probable cause to
arrest him because Glemaud spotted the metal stem in the middle console. Ferguson argues that
Glemaud’s testimony should be rejected as incredible, and he contends that the four police officers—
members of the NYPD Street Crimes Unit — stopped him without reasonable suspicion or probable cause.
Indeed, he alleges that the officers engaged in unlawful “racial profiling.” The motion to suppress
is granted, because I conclude that the Government has not met its burden of proving, by a
preponderance of the evidence, that the four police officers had reasonable suspicion to stop the
car or probable cause to arrest Ferguson. The evidence presented by the Government and the police
officers is replete with inconsistencies and contradictions. The Criminal Court complaint, for
example, makes no mention of tinted windows or a license plate search. More significantly, it
alleges that the defendant was “alone” in his car when clearly he was not, and it alleges that the
“glass pipe” was seen in the middle console of the car when the detectives testified that the “glass
pipe” was seized from the defendant’s pants pocket after he was told to exit the vehicle. In
addition, Glemaud testified that he saw a “metal stem” in the center console, but the ATF complaint
does not mention the metal stem at all and instead alleges that the “crack pipe” was seen in the
center console. The ATF complaint does not allege that a crack pipe or any other drug paraphernalia
was removed from defendant, but states that the “crack pipe” was recovered from the car. In
addition, the ATF complaint alleges that the officers “used the car radio to call in” the license
plate of defendant’s car, when it is clear that the officers did not make any radio transmissions
but instead used the portable computer in the car to search the Department of Motor Vehicle records.
The detectives’ testimony at the suppression hearing raises significant questions in other respects
as well. At one point Glemaud testified that the sole basis for stopping the car was the tinted
windows, as he stated that the license plate search was not conducted until after the car was
stopped. (See Tr. at 14, 77-78, 90-91). On the other hand, Anderson testified that the car was
stopped for two reasons — the tinted windows and the results of the license plate search. (See,
e.g., id. at 46-47). In addition, Glemaud testified that Anderson removed the metal stem from the
car, but Anderson testified that after he asked the defendant to get out of the car, he searched the
front part of the car and found nothing. If the metal stem had been in the middle console in plain
view, presumably Anderson would have seen and recovered it when, he conducted his search. If the
metal stem was not actually in the middle console, then Glemaud had no articulable basis for
believing, prior to searching him, that Ferguson had committed a crime for which he should be
arrested. Again, neither the Criminal Court complaint nor the ATF agent’s complaint makes any
mention of a metal stem. Moreover, it is surprising that Ferguson would have left the metal stem in
plain view, knowing that police officers were approaching, and it is also surprising that Glemaud
would have been able to see the 4^ by % inch metal stem, “contain[ing] [less than 1.0 grain of] a
white powdery residue,” from five feet away at night and recognize it as drug paraphernalia. (See
Tr. at 16, 19; cf. DX 1 (Criminal Court complaint alleging that Glemaud “observed” a “glass pipe
containing white, roc/c-like residue” in the middle console) (emphasis added); see also GX 4
(describing “glass stem w/ residue” and “metal pipe,” each containing less than 1.0 grain of
cocaine)). There is also an apparent inconsistency in the testimony of the two detectives with
respect to timing. Glemaud testified that he saw the metal stem as he approached the front passenger
door, as the window was in the process of being lowered. (Tr. at 15-16). According to his testimony,
he sent the signal to his partner right away to make the arrest. Anderson, on the other hand,
testified that he asked Ferguson for his paperwork, Ferguson produced it, and Anderson was in the
process of reviewing it when Glemaud sent him the signal. (Id at 47-49). Presumably, it would have
taken Ferguson a moment to locate his license, registration, and insurance information and hand them
to Anderson and it would have taken another moment for Anderson to start reviewing the paperwork. In
addition, Glemaud testified that he did not remember anyone asking Ferguson for his paperwork and
that he did not think Ferguson handed the documents to anyone; he even speculated that perhaps
Ferguson did so at the precinct. (Id. at 89). At the hearing, the Government also theorized that the
officers made a computer check of Ferguson’s plate on April 5, 2000, and mistakenly believed, when
they saw a reference to Ferguson’s old plates being surrendered, that there was a problem with the
existing plates. Information uncovered after the hearing, however, showed that this theory was
incorrect. The Government’s second theory, based on the additional information obtained after the
hearing, is that the officers initially ran the wrong plate number, saw that those plates should
have been surrendered, and mistakenly believed that Ferguson’s plates should have been surrendered.
The officers then realized, according to the Government’s second theory,- that the wrong plate had
been searched and they therefore ran a second search, of the correct plate number, a few minutes
later. The problem, of course, is that neither of the two detectives testified at the suppression
hearing that two computer searches were done, and no one testified that the wrong plate number had
been initially run. The Government acknowledges that the police officers and ATF agent made mistakes
in their respective sworn complaints, but argues that the mistakes were innocent ones attributable
to, at worst, sloppiness. The errors and inconsistencies, however, are not just found in the
complaints. Rather, the errors and inconsistencies appear throughout the evidence, and the mistakes
and contradictions are not just minor ones. They exist with respect to important facts, such as how
many individuals were in the vehicle, whether a metal stem or a glass pipe or any contraband was
seen in the center console, and whether and when the officers made a radio transmission or computer
search.


