**gold_text:**
The law of this circuit is clear that when the written contract is clear and unequivocal, there is
no need to resort to extrinsic evidence. See Bohler-Uddeholm Am. Inc. v. Ellwood Group, Inc., 247
F.3d 79, 92 (3rd Cir.2001). On the other hand, our cases have permitted consideration of extrinsic
evidence in order to determine whether the ambiguity can be resolved. See Sikirica v. Nationwide
Ins. Co., 416 F.3d 214, 220 (3rd Cir.2005); Pacific Indem. Co. v. Linn, 766 F.2d 754, 761 (3rd
Cir.1985).

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
The Third Circuit's stance on examining extrinsic evidence when construing an insurance policy is
clear from Sikirica v. Nationwide Ins. Co., 416 F.3d 214, where it held that if a term is ambiguous,
the court may look to extrinsic evidence to resolve the ambiguity. This approach aligns with the
principle that ambiguous terms in an insurance contract must be strictly construed against the
insurer but that extrinsic evidence can still be utilized to discern the parties' intent (Pac.
Indem. Co. v. Linn, 766 F.2d 754, 761). Additionally, Federal Ins. Co. v. Continental Casualty Co.,
2006 WL 3386625, albeit a pressure point of disagreement, is not universally accepted as precluding
the use of extrinsic evidence in all instances of insurance contract interpretation.  Consistent
with these precedents is the recognized principle that clear contractual terms must be given effect
without reference to extrinsic matters, but ambiguity permits recourse to external aids. Ambiguous
insurance contracts, while construed in favor of the insured as a matter of general practice, are
not immune from the analytical depth provided by relevant extrinsic evidence (12th Street Gym, Inc.
v. General Star Indemnity Company, 93 F.3d 1158). The 247 F.3d 79 and 416 F.3d 214 cases reinforce
that the intent of the parties, often clarified through external matters when ambiguity arises, is
pivotal to fair contract enforcement in Pennsylvania’s legal landscape.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
  In construing the insurance policy at issue, the court must consider the intent of the parties and
the circumstances surrounding the making of the contract. The court may look to extrinsic evidence
to resolve ambiguities and determine the parties' intent. In this case, the court must consider the
language of the policy, including the "Exclusion — Designated Professional Services" endorsement, to
determine the scope of coverage.  The court may also consider the circumstances surrounding the
making of the contract, such as the parties' negotiations and any representations made by the
insurer. In this case, the parties may have intended to exclude coverage for public officials'
liability, but the court must consider all of the evidence before making a determination.  In
determining the scope of coverage, the court must also consider the principles of insurance law,
including the doctrine of utmost good faith and the duty to act in good faith. The court must also
consider the insurance company's obligations under the policy, including its duty to defend and
indemnify the insured.  In this case, the court must balance the parties' interests and determine
the scope of coverage based on the language of the policy and the circumstances surrounding the
making of the contract. The court may consider extrinsic evidence, such as the parties' negotiations
and any representations made by the insurer, to resolve any ambiguities and determine the parties'
intent.  247 F.3d 79; 416 F.3d 214; 416 F.3d 214; 766 F.2d 754.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-finetuned:***
  The Court noted that the parties had stipulated that the insurance policy contained an ambiguity
and that the insurer had not relied on the ambiguity to its detriment. Id. at —. The Court also
cited Sikirica v. Nationwide Ins. Co., 416 F.3d 214, 220 (3rd Cir.2005), for the proposition that
where a term is ambiguous, and the intention of the parties cannot be discerned from the policy, the
court may look to extrinsic evidence of the purpose of the insurance, its subject matter, the
situation of the parties, and the circumstances surrounding the making of the contract. In Pacific
Indem. Co. v. Linn, 766 F.2d 754, 761 (3rd Cir.1985), the Court held that when a term in the policy
is ambiguous, however, and the intention of the parties cannot be discerned from the face of the
policy, the court, in its attempts to arrive at a reasonable construction of the policy that is in
accord with the parties’ apparent intention, may look to extrinsic evidence of the purpose of the
insurance, its subject matter, the situation of the parties, and the circumstances surrounding the
making of the contract. See also 12th Street Gym, Inc. v. General Star Indemnity Company, 93 F.3d
1158 (3rd Cir.1996). (The Gym and Guzzardi contend the ambiguous language in the [policy] should be
construed against General Star. See, e.g., Standard Venetian Blind Co. v. Am. Empire Ins. Co., 503
Pa. 300, 469 A.2d 563 (1983). But a court will only construe ambiguous language against the drafter
in the absence of relevant extrinsic evidence. Hutchison v. Sunbeam Coal Corp., 513 Pa. 192, 519
A.2d 385, 390-91 n. 5 (1986).). In the context of determining whether an insurance policy’s language
is ambiguous, the Court has held that if the words of the policy are clear and unambiguous, the
court must give them their plain and ordinary meaning. Pac. Indem. Co. v. Linn, 766 F.2d 754, 760-61
(3rd Cir.1985). If a term is ambiguous, however, the court may look to extrinsic evidence of the
purpose of the insurance, its subject matter,


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['247 F.3d 79', '416 F.3d 214', '416 F.3d 214', '766 F.2d 754']

***short_citations_0:*** 247 F.3d 79

while the broad principles are clear, it is not a seamless web, and hence we will have to review some of the relevant Pennsylvania eases before applying the law to the facts at bar. Pennsylvania contract law begins with the “firmly settled” point that “the intent of the parties to a written contract is contained in the writing itself.” Krizovensky v. Krizovensky, 425 Pa.Super. 204, 624 A.2d 638, 642 (1993) (citing Steuart v. McChesney, 498 Pa. 45, 444 A.2d 659 (1982)). “ Where the intention of the parties is clear, there is no need to resort to extrinsic aids or evidence,’ ” instead, the meaning of a clear and unequivocal written contract “ ‘must be determined by its contents alone.’ ” Steuart, 444 A.2d at 661 (quoting East Crossroads Ctr., Inc. v. Mellon-Stuart Co., 416 Pa. 229, 205 A.2d 865, 866 (1965)). “[Wjhere language is clear and unambiguous, the focus of interpretation is upon the terms of the agreement as manifestly expressed, rather than as, perhaps, silently intended.” Id. “Clear contractual terms that are capable of one reasonable interpretation must be given effect without reference to matters outside the contract.” Krizovensky, 624 A.2d at 642. A court may, however, look outside the “four corners” of a contract if the contract’s terms are unclear: “[w]here the contract terms are ambiguous and susceptible of more than one reasonable interpretation, ... the court is free to receive extrinsic evidence, i.e., parol evidence, to resolve the ambiguity.” Id. But because Pennsylvania presumes that the

***short_citations_1:*** 416 F.3d 214

the nonmoving party. Id. Interpretation of an insurance policy is a question of law, and review is plenary. Westport Ins. Corp. v. Bayer, 284 F.3d 489, 496 (3d Cir.2002). In construing the policy, if the words of the policy are clear and unambiguous, the court must give them their plain and ordinary meaning. Pac. Indem. Co. v. Linn, 766 F.2d 754, 760-61 (3d Cir.1985). When a term is ambiguous, and the intention of the parties cannot be discerned from the policy, the court may look to extrinsic evidence of the purpose of the insurance, its subject matter, the situation of the parties, and the circumstances surrounding the making of the contract. Id. at 761. Ambiguous terms must be strictly construed against the insurer, but the policy language must not be tortured to create ambiguities where none exist. Id. III. DISCUSSION A. Sikirica’s Motion to Remand for Untimely Removal Silúrica contends Nationwide did not remove to federal court within 30 days of its receipt of service of process as required by 28 U.S.C. § 1446(b). This argument requires us to determine when the 30-day period for removal began. Silúrica demanded $300,000 in a letter to Nationwide dated April 5, 2002. The writ of summons informing Nationwide of the parties’ citizenship was served on Nationwide on April 29, 2002. Silúrica argues these two documents together constitute sufficient notice of diversity jurisdiction to trigger the 30-day period upon service of the writ of summons. If so, removal was untimely because Nationwide did not

***short_citations_2:*** 416 F.3d 214

to the nonmoving party. Id. Interpretation of an insurance policy is a question of law, and review is plenary. Westport Ins. Corp. v. Bayer, 284 F.3d 489, 496 (3d Cir.2002). In construing the policy, if the words of the policy are clear and unambiguous, the court must give them their plain and ordinary meaning. Pac. Indem. Co. v. Linn, 766 F.2d 754, 760-61 (3d Cir.1985). When a term is ambiguous, and the intention of the parties cannot be discerned from the policy, the court may look to extrinsic evidence of the purpose of the insurance, its subject matter, the situation of the parties, and the circumstances surrounding the making of the contract. Id. at 761. Ambiguous terms must be strictly construed against the insurer, but the policy language must not be tortured to create ambiguities where none exist. Id. III. DISCUSSION A. Sikirica’s Motion to Remand for Untimely Removal Sikirica contends Nationwide did not remove to federal court within 30 days of its receipt of service of process as required by 28 U.S.C. § 1446(b). This argument requires us to determine when the 30-day period for removal began. Sikirica demanded $300,000 in a letter to Nationwide dated April 5, 2002. The writ of summons informing Nationwide of the parties’ citizenship was served on Nationwide on April 29, 2002. Sikirica argues these two documents together constitute sufficient notice of diversity jurisdiction to trigger the 30-day period upon service of the writ of summons. If so, removal was untimely because Nationwide did

***short_citations_3:*** 766 F.2d 754

the claim to a recovery that is not within the scope of the policy. Cadwallader, 396 Pa. 582, 152 A.2d 484; Seaboard Industries, 258 Pa.Super. 170, 392 A.2d 738. In construing an insurance policy, if the words of the policy are clear and unambiguous, the court must give the words their plain and ordinary meaning. Northbrook Insurance Co. v. Kuljian Corp., 690 F.2d 368, 372 (3d Cir.1982). When a term in the policy is ambiguous, however, and the intention of the parties cannot be discerned from the face of the policy, the court, in its attempts to arrive at a reasonable construction of the policy that is in accord with the parties’ apparent intention, may look to extrinsic evidence of the purpose of the insurance, its subject matter, the situation of the parties, and the circumstances surrounding the making of the contract. Id. (citing Celley v. Mutual Benefit Health & Accident Association, 229 Pa.Super. 475, 482-83, 324 A.2d 430, 434 (1974)). Where ambiguous, insurance contracts are to be construed strictly against the insurer. Mohn v. American Casualty Co., 458 Pa. 576, 586, 326 A.2d 346, 351 (1974). Hence, any ambiguities are to be resolved in favor of the insured. The language of a policy may not be tortured, however, to create ambiguities where none exist. Houghton v. American Guaranty Life Insurance Co., 692 F.2d 289, 291 (3d Cir.1982). Exclusions from coverage contained in an insurance policy will be effective against an insured if they are clearly worded and conspicuously displayed,

**prev_text:**
MEMORANDUM OPINION SEAN J. McLAUGHLIN, District Judge. Plaintiffs City of Warren, Pellegrino Food
Products, Inc. (“Pellegrino Foods”), and three of its corporate officers — Anthony Pellegrino,
Angela Pellegrino, and Thomas Pellegrino (collectively, “Pellegrinos”) — filed the instant
declaratory judgment action seeking a declaration from the Court that the Defendant, American
Automobile Insurance Co. (“AAIC”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Fireman’s Fund Insurance Company
(“FFIC”), is obligated to indemnify them. This matter is before the Court upon cross motions for
summary judgment. I. BACKGROUND For many years prior to the events underlying this lawsuit, FFIC had
been the underwriter of most of Warren’s insurance policies. Gayle Mohney, Secretary and/or
Administrative Assistant to Warren’s City Manager, was the Warren employee responsible for
maintaining and renewing Warren’s various insurance policies. (See Gayle Mohney Deposition,
Plaintiffs Motion, Ex. C, pp. 10, 13). Mohney had no prior experience with insurance-related
matters, but acquired a general understanding of insurance coverage issues through her twenty years
of experience in purchasing policies for the City of Warren, reviewing proposals, keeping policies
up to date, reviewing disclaimer letters and comparing them to policy terms, conversing with
insurance agents, and generally maintaining the Warren policies. (Mohney Depo., pp. 12-13). In
making decisions as to insurance-related matters and coverage issues, Mohney relied heavily upon the
expertise of David W. Pearson, an agent for Garrison-Simonsen, Inc. (“Garrison”), Warren’s insurance
agent at all times relevant to the instant litigation. (See Mohney Depo., pp. 12-15; David Pearson
Deposition, Plaintiffs Motion, Ex. D, pp. 8, 46). Sometime in 1992, Pearson procured property,
general liability, automobile liability, crime, and inland marine coverage for Warren through a
program offered by AAIC and marketed and sold by The HDH Group (“HDH”) known as the Penn sylvania
Municipalities Insurance Program (“PMI Program”). The PMI program offered a variety of coverages to
municipalities with populations ranging from 5,000 to 250,000. (See Plaintiffs Motion, Ex. A, p.
20). William Merrell, on behalf of HDH, assisted Pearson and Garrison in procuring the insurance for
Warren. Merrell advised Pearson both orally and in writing that the PMI program excluded coverage
for Public Officials Liability and Law Enforcement Liability. (William Merrell Affidavit,
Defendant’s Appendix 11, ¶¶ 18-20). Pearson was aware of and understood the features of the Program,
including the Public Officials Liability exclusion. (Pearson Depo., p. 16). Pearson subsequently
recommended to Mohney that Warren enroll in the PMI program, explained its features to her and
advised her as to the need to procure “professional liability coverage for public officials in a
separate policy.” (Pearson Depo., p. 18). Based on Pearson’s understanding that an endorsement in
the AAIC policy styled “Exclusion- — -Designated Professional Services” excluded liability for
public officials, he procured separate coverage for “Public Officials and Employee Liability” from
the Coregis Insurance Company. (Pearson Depo., pp. 16-18, 24, 42; Merrell Aff., ¶ 20). Pearson and
Mohney jointly reviewed the City of Warren’s insurance policies annually as a part of their regular
business relationship, including the policy exclusions. (Pearson Depo., pp. 35, 37-40; Mohney Depo.,
pp. 32-33). Pearson informed Mohney that the AAIC policy excluded coverage for “public officials
liability” and that, consequently,- he had procured alternate coverage for claims against public
officials. (Pearson Depo., pp. 37-38). Although she couldn’t recall the specifics of the
conversation, it was her general understanding that the city had separate coverage for public
officials liability because it was not covered by the AAIC policy. (Mohney Depo., pp. 64-65). On
October 22, 1999, Pellegrino Foods filed an action styled a Complaint Seeking Mandamus to Compel
Issuance of a Building Permit against the city of Warren. Pellegrino Foods alleged that Warren had
illegally and improperly denied Pellegrino Foods’ application for a building permit to expand its
plant. Upon receipt of the Complaint, Mohney forwarded it to David Pearson and requested that he
forward the Complaint to AAIC. (See Mohney correspondence, Plaintiffs’ Motion, Ex. M). On April 10,
2000, AAIC denied coverage relying on the “Exclusion — Designated Professional Services”
endorsement. (See April 10, 2000 Denial Letter, Plaintiffs’ Motion, Ex. N). On May 26, 2000, the
Pellegrino Plaintiffs filed a lawsuit against Warren before the undersigned (referred to hereinafter
as “Pellegrino Foods Litigation”) alleging that from 1993 through 1999, Warren engaged in a pattern
of conduct of improperly and unreasonably handling zoning decisions, property sales, and other
matters involving Pellegrino Foods with the intent to damage Pellegrino Foods’ business and to block
its expansion plans. (See Pellegrino Complaint, Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Judgment, Exhibit 0).
Specifically, the Pellegrinos alleged that Warren improperly contested the Pellegrinos’ purchase of
a parcel of land adjacent to their business property, refused to rezone property purchased by the
Pellegrinos from residential to industrial despite doing so for many other area businesses, imposed
unreasonable and cost-prohibitive restrictions on the Pellegrinos’ application for a special
exception, and improperly denied a building permit despite all conditions having been met. Based on
this conduct, the Complaint alleged substantive and procedural due process violations under 42
U.S.C. § 1983 as well as conspiracy to violate 42 U.S.C. § 1983, tortious interference with
prospective business and contractual relationships, and other state law claims. (Id.) Warren timely
notified Pearson of the pending Pellegrino Foods Litigation to ensure that the appropriate insurance
carriers were put on notice. (Pearson Depo., pp. 23-24). Although he “had a reasonable idea that
coverage wouldn’t have been provided” under the AAIC policy, Pearson forwarded the complaint to AAIC
and requested coverage. He wanted to make the “extra effort” to explore every potential insurance
option because, in his experience, insurance companies will occasionally “pay for things that may
not be covered under the letter of the policy” because of a mistaken belief that coverage is owed or
for unanticipated business reasons. (Id. at 50-51). By correspondence dated June 30, 2000, AAIC
denied coverage for the Pellegrino Litigation. The denial letter stated in pertinent part: The
allegations contained in the Complaint do not seek damages which arise from bodily injury or
property damage caused by an occurrence. Nor do the allegations seek damages caused by advertising
injury to which this insurance applies. Although [an] endorsement expands the definition of Personal
Injury, please be advised that you[r] policy contains endorsement # CG 2116 7/98 entitled, Exlusion
— Designated Professional Services which states “This insurance does not apply to bodily injury,
property damage or personal and advertising injury due to the rendering of or failure to render any
professional service. The professional service designated on your policy is “PUBLIC OFFICIALS.” * *
* * * * Considering the above reasons, Fireman’s Fund will be unable to provide you with either
indemnification or defense with regard to the pending litigation. (Plaintiffs Motion, Ex. P, Denial
Letter). The “Personal and Advertising Injury Liability” provision referenced in the denial letter
provides as follows: (a) We will pay those sums that the insured becomes legally obligated to pay as
damages because of personal injury or advertising injury to which this insurance part applies ...
(b) This insurance applies to: (1) Personal injury caused by an offense arising out of your
business, excluding advertising; publishing, broadcasting or telecasting done by or for you; (2)
Advertising injury caused by offense committed in the course of advertising your goods, products or
services, but only if the offense was committed in the coverage territory during the policy period.
(Ex. I, p. 28; Ex. J, p. 29; Ex. K, p. 30). “Personal injury” is defined in the policies as, inter
alia, “injury, other than bodily injury, arising out of ... [t]he wrongful eviction from, wrongful
entry into, or invasion of the right of private occupancy of a room, dwelling or premises that a
person occupies by or on behalf of its owner, landlord, or lessor.” (Ex. I, p. 37; Ex. J, p. 38; Ex.
K, p. 39). In 2003, Pearson wrote to AAIC and requested reconsideration of its previous denial of
coverage. (Pearson Depo., p. 47). In response, AAIC reiterated its position that it would not defend
or indemnify Warren with regard to the Pellegrino Foods Litigation. (Id. at 47-48). Warren defended
the lawsuit and prevailed in having several claims dismissed. See Pellegrino Food Products Co., Inc.
v. City of Warren, 136 F.Supp.2d 391 (W.D.Pa.2000), aff'd, 116 Fed.Appx. 346 (3rd Cir.2004).
However, the substantive due process, equal protection, and tortious interference claims against
Warren, Mayor John R. Nemcovsky, City Manager A. Kenneth Dupont, Solicitor William F. Morgan, Zoning
Officer/Community Safety Officer Donald A. Worley, and Chairman of the Zoning Hearing Board George
W. Crozier survived summary judgment and a subsequent interlocutory appeal. (See Transcript of
December 19, 2002 Hearing, Plaintiffs’ Motion, Exhibit Z). On the eve of trial, Warren entered into
a settlement agreement with Pellegrino Foods wherein Warren agreed to pay Pellegrino damages in the
amount of $2,500,000. The total settlement amount consisted of $500,000 to be paid directly by
Warren, $1,000,000 to be paid by Coregis, and an assignment to the Pellegrinos of Warren’s rights to
the remaining $1,000,000 from Defendant AAIC. (See Settlement Agreement, Plaintiffs’ Motion, Ex. Q;
Note in Conjunction with Structured Settlement, Ex. R; Assignment and Assumption Agreement, Ex. S).
Accordingly, the Court entered a Consent Judgment in favor of Pellegrino Foods and against Warren in
the amount of $2,500,000. (See Consent Judgment, Plaintiffs’ Motion, Ex. U). Coregis paid for a
portion of Warren’s defense costs pursuant to a “Public Officials and Employees Liability Insurance”
policy in effect at the time of the Pellegrino claim, and ultimately paid out its policy limits in
the settlement of the Pellegrino litigation. (Plaintiffs Motion, Ex. X). The Plaintiffs commenced
the instant litigation in October, 2005, seeking to enforce their rights as assignee of the City of
Warren pursuant to the settlement in the Pellegrino Foods Litigation. Specifically, Plaintiffs seek
a declaratory judgment that AAIC improperly denied coverage in the Pellegrino Food litigation. The
parties have each filed cross-motions for summary judgment and responses to the cross-motions; as
such, this matter is ripe for review. II. STANDARD FOR REVIEW The standard for summary judgment in a
declaratory judgment action is the same as for any other type of relief. Transguard Ins. Co. of
America, Inc. v. Hinchey, 464 F.Supp.2d 425 (M.D.Pa.2006) (citing Cloverland-Green Spring Dairies,
Inc. v. Pa. Milk Marketing Board, 298 F.3d 201, 210 n. 12 (3rd Cir.2002)). Summary judgment is
proper “if the pleadings, depositions, answers to interrogatories and admissions on file, together
with the affidavits, if any, show that there is no genuine issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” Fed.R.Civ.P. 56(c). In order to
withstand a motion for summary judgment, the non-moving party must “make a showing sufficient to
establish the existence of [each] element essential to that party’s case, and on which that party
will bear the burden of proof at trial.” Celotex Corp. v. Catrett, 477 U.S. 317, 322, 106 S.Ct.
2548, 91 L.Ed.2d 265 (1986). In evaluating whether the non-moving party has established each
necessary element, the Court must grant all reasonable inferences from the evidence to the nonmoving
party. Knabe v. Boury Corp., 114 F.3d 407, 410, n. 4 (3d Cir.1997) (citing Matsushita Elec. Indus.
Co. v. Zenith Radio Corp., 475 U.S. 574, 106 S.Ct. 1348, 89 L.Ed.2d 538 (1986)). “Where the record
taken as a whole could not lead a reasonable trier of fact to find for the non-moving party, there
is no ‘genuine issue for trial.’ ” Id. (quoting Matsushita, 475 U.S. at 587, 106 S.Ct. 1348). III.
ANALYSIS In Pennsylvania, “the interpretation of insurance contracts is a question of law that
properly may be decided by the court rather than a jury.” Gamble Farm Inn, Inc. v. Selective Ins.
Co., 440 Pa.Super. 501, 656 A.2d 142 (1995). If possible, a court should interpret the policy so as
to avoid ambiguities and give effect to all of its provisions. Houghton v. American Guaranty Life
Ins. Co., 692 F.2d 289, 291 (3rd Cir.1982). However, if the policy, when viewed as a whole, is
reasonably susceptible to more than one interpretation, it must be considered ambiguous. Vlastos v.
Sumitomo Marine & Fire Ins., 707 F.2d 775, 778 (3rd Cir.1983). Where a policy is determined to be
ambiguous, a court may, in the absence of disputed facts, attempt to resolve the ambiguity. However,
the parties disagree as to how such an ambiguity should be resolved in the context of an insurance
policy. Plaintiffs contend that an ambiguity in an insurance policy must always be resolved against
the insurer and, consequently, resort to extrinsic or parol evidence is never appropriate in the
insurance context. (Plaintiffs’ Memorandum in Opposition, Dkt. # 58, pp. 3-8). AAIC, on the other
hand, argues that resort to extrinsic or parol evidence is not precluded to discern the parties’
intent and resolve an ambiguity merely because an insurance contract is involved. (Defendant’s Brief
in Response, Dkt. # 53, pp. 24-31). Since the resolution of this legal issue is central to our mode
of analysis, we address it first. The Pennsylvania Supreme Court has frequently reiterated the
hornbook principle that extrinsic evidence of the intent of parties to a contract may be utilized by
a court to interpret ambiguous language therein: Determining the intention of the parties is a
paramount consideration in the interpretation of any contract. The intent of the parties is to be
ascertained from the document itself when the terms are clear and unambiguous. However, as this
Court stated in Herr Estate, 400 Pa. 90, 161 A.2d 32 (1960), “where an ambiguity exists, parol
evidence is admissible to explain or clarify or resolve the ambiguity, irrespective of whether the
ambiguity is created by the language of the instrument or by extrinsic or collateral circumstances.”
Hutchison v. Sunbeam Coal Corp., 513 Pa. 192, 519 A.2d 385 (1986) (citing Herr Estate, 400 Pa. 90,
161 A.2d 32 (1960)). However, in Standard Venetian Blind Co. v. Am. Empire Ins. Co., 503 Pa. 300,
469 A.2d 563 (1983), the Pennsylvania Supreme Court articulated the following approach relative to
the construction of insurance policies: The goal of [interpreting insurance contracts] is, of
course, to ascertain the intent of the parties as manifested by the language of the written
instrument. Where a provision of a policy is ambiguous, the policy provision is to be construed in
favor of the insured and against the insurer, the drafter of the agreement. Where, however, the
language of the contract is clear and unambiguous, a court is required to give effect to that
language. Standard Venetian Blind, 469 A.2d at 566. Similarly, in Bateman v. Motorists Mut. Ins.
Co., 527 Pa. 241, 590 A.2d 281 (1991), the court noted: The principles governing the interpretation
of a contract of insurance are also well settled. Review is aimed at ascertaining the intent of the
parties as manifested by the language of the written instrument. Where the provision of the policy
is ambiguous, the policy provision is construed in favor of the insured and against the insurer, the
drafter of the instrument. Bateman, 590 A.2d at 283-84. After determining that the word “otherwise”
rendered the phrase “[a]ny amounts otherwise payable for damages under this coverage shall be
reduced by all sums paid ...” ambiguous, the Bateman court construed the policy term against the
insurance company without considering extrinsic evidence. Id. at 283. Plaintiffs rely on Standard
Venetian Blind and its progeny for the proposition that resort to extrinsic evidence to resolve an
ambiguity in an insurance contract is unnecessary and improper since the ambiguity must, as a matter
of law, be resolved against the drafter. However, Third Circuit jurisprudence does not support the
proposition that resort to extrinsic evidence is precluded, in all cases, in order to determine the
parties’ intent relative to the operation or effect of language in an insurance policy. For example,
in 12th Street Gym, Inc. v. General Star Indemnity Company, 93 F.3d 1158 (3rd Cir.1996), the Court
was asked to determine whether a liability insurance policy’s Sexually Transmitted Disease Exclusion
excluded coverage for claims arising out of a gym member’s expulsion due to a diagnosis of AIDS. The
Court concluded that the exclusion was susceptible to various reasonable interpretations and
sanctioned the use of extrinsic evidence to resolve the ambiguity: The Gym and Guzzardi contend the
ambiguous language in the [policy] should be construed against General Star. See, e.g., Standard
Venetian Blind Co., 469 A.2d at 566 (where the language is ambiguous, “the policy provision is to be
construed in favor of the insured and against the insurer, the drafter of the agreement”). But a
court will only construe ambiguous language against the drafter in the absence of relevant extrinsic
evidence. Hutchison, 519 A.2d at 390-91 n. 5. 12th Street Gym, 93 F.3d at 1166 (emphasis supplied).
After determining that the extrinsic evidence before it was insufficient to resolve the ambiguity,
the Court remanded to the district court for further fact-finding. Id. See also Sikirica v.
Nationwide Ins. Co., 416 F.3d 214, 220 (3rd Cir.2005) (“When a term is ambiguous, and the intention
of the parties cannot be discerned from the policy, the court may look to extrinsic evidence of the
purpose of the insurance, its subject matter, the situation of the parties, and the circumstances
surrounding the making of the contract.”); Pacific Indem. Co. v. Linn, 766 F.2d 754, 761 (3rd
Cir.1985) (“When a term in the policy is ambiguous, however, and the intention of the parties cannot
be discerned from the face of the policy, the court, in its attempts to arrive at a reasonable
construction of the policy that is in accord with the parties’ apparent intention, may look to
extrinsic evidence of the purpose of the insurance, its subject matter, the situation of the
parties, and the circumstances surrounding the making of the contract.”). Plaintiffs contend that
two recent Pennsylvania Supreme Court cases, Insurance Adjustment Bureau, Inc. v. Allstate Insurance
Company, 588 Pa. 470, 905 A.2d 462 (2006), and Prudential Property and Casualty Insurance Company v.
Sartno, 588 Pa. 205, 903 A.2d 1170 (2006), compel the conclusion that resort to extrinsic evidence
is never appropriate to resolve an ambiguity in an insurance policy. In Prudential Property, the
Pennsylvania Supreme Court interpreted an automobile insurance contract containing an exclusion that
the court found to be susceptible to more than one reasonable meaning. In resolving the ambiguity,
the court held: Regardless of which [interpretation] is “right” or “wrong,” the fact is that because
each interpretation is reasonable, the exclusionary term is ambiguous, and we must construe it in
favor of the insured. Where a provision of a policy is ambiguous, the policy provision is to be
construed in favor of the insured and against the insurer, the drafter of the agreement. Prudential
Property, 903 A.2d at 1177 (internal citations omitted). Decided just two days later, Insurance
Adjustment Bureau involved an ambiguity in an assignment contract, rather than an insurance
contract. In the context of determining whether a written agreement between an insurance company and
another company’s insured entitled the former to a payment of insurance proceeds, the court
explained: The fundamental rule in contract interpretation is to ascertain the intent of the
contracting parties. In cases of a written contract, the intent of the parties is the writing
itself. Under ordinary principles of contract interpretation, the agreement is to be construed
against its drafter. When the terms of a contract are clear and unambiguous, the intent of the
parties is to be ascertained from the document itself. Hutchison v. Sunbeam Coal Corp., 513 Pa. 192,
519 A.2d 385, 390 (1986). When, however, an ambiguity exists, parol evidence is admissible to
explain or clarify or resolve the ambiguity, irrespective of whether the ambiguity is patent,
created by the language of the instrument, or latent, created by extrinsic or collateral
circumstances. Steuart v. McChesney, 498 Pa. 45, 444 A.2d 659, 663 (1982); In re Herr’s Estate, 400
Pa. 90, 161 A.2d 32, 34 (1960). Insurance Adjustment Bureau, 905 A.2d at 468-69 (some internal
citations omitted). Plaintiffs rely on Federal Ins. Co. v. Continental Casualty Co., 2006 WL 3386625
(W.D.Pa.2006), wherein the court reached the following conclusion as to the import of Prudential
Property and Insurance Adjustment Bureau: In the wake of The Insurance Adjustment Bureau, Inc. and
Prudential Property, it appears that Pennsylvania law distinguishes between insurance contracts and
other types of contracts. While the general contract law of Pennsylvania provides that unambiguous
writings are construed by the court as a matter of law and ambiguous writings are construed by the
finder of fact, the insurance contract law of Pennsylvania provides only for a judicial construction
as a matter of law, with all ambiguities to be resolved in favor of the insureds .... Any language
to the contrary in 12th Street Gym, Inc. is due to the lack of clarity that existed in the law of
Pennsylvania ten years ago. Id. We respectfully disagree. First, Insurance Adjustment Bureau, a non-
insurance case, simply reiterates the well established principle that parol evidence may be utilized
to resolve an ambiguity in a contract. In Prudential Property, where the court construed an
ambiguous term against the insurance carrier, there was no indication that any extrinsic evidence
was offered much less available to clarify the term. We also note that the Third Circuit has
recently reiterated the propriety of examining extrinsic evidence, in an appropriate case, when
construing an insurance policy. See Allstate Indemnity Co. v. Coroniti, — Fed.Appx. -, 2007 WL
3118329 (3rd Cir.2007). In Allstate Indemnity, the insured had purchased automobile insurance from
Allstate prior to sustaining an injury in an automobile accident. When the parties disagreed as to
the amount of coverage owed, the district court relied on extrinsic evidence of their intent to
resolve the issue in favor of the insurance company. The Third Circuit, on appeal, rejected the
insured’s argument that resort to extrinsic evidence was inappropriate in the context of an
insurance policy:


