**gold_text:**
As the application note to § 3B1.3 indicates, the other type of case where an enhancement under §
3B1.3 is proper is where a fiduciary or personal trust relationship exists. For example, in United
States v. Queen, 4 F.3d 925 (10th Cir.1993), cert. denied, — U.S. —, 114 S.Ct. 1230, 127 L.Ed.2d 575
(1994), we upheld an enhancement for the president of a company who had claimed to be an investment
advisor/broker and had solicited funds which he had diverted for his personal use. He covered up his
diversion by sending phony profit statements to the investors. Clearly, his position provided him
with “the freedom to commit a difficult-to-detect wrong,” one of the essential factors in the test
for abuse of trust. United States v. Williams, 966 F.2d at 557. Furthermore, the district court had
specifically found that a fiduciary relationship existed between the defendant and his “clients.”
Id. at 927. Similarly, in United States v. Lowder, 5 F.3d 467 (10th Cir.1993), an accountant
personally solicited investments from his tax clients, fraudulently promising them a guaranteed
twelve percent return; the funds he then diverted to his personal use. As president of the company,
he was able to dispose of the investors’ money without oversight. These cases are closer to the ease
at bar in that they involve presidents of companies who defrauded others. Despite this similarity,
these cases do not support an “abuse of trust” enhancement for Mr. Brunson.

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
The district court found that Mr. Brunson’s role as president of Consolidated Services Corporation
did not equate to a position of trust vis-a-vis the Russian Coal Company. This determination aligns
with established jurisprudence that an abuse of trust enhancement under U.S.S.G. § 3B1.3 requires
the defendant’s position to significantly facilitate the offense through trust placed by the victim
(4 F.3d 925). Furthermore, Mr. Brunson’s argument that he merely portrayed a semblance of
legitimacy, hence not occupying a genuine position of trust, resonates with the principles laid out
in United States v. Lowder, where the use of authority and the absence of oversight defined the
clear abuse of such trust (5 F.3d 467).  In light of these precedents, Mr. Brunson did not possess a
fiduciary or authoritative role that would substantiate a § 3B1.3 enhancement. His actions, instead,
embody the conduct of an external fraudster rather than an insider exploiting privileged access or
reliance. Consequently, the application of the two-point enhancement for abuse of a position of
trust is reversed, consistent with the statutory interpretation and case law guiding the proper
constraints of this sentencing enhancement.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
 The cases referenced in the articles provide guidance on the application of sentencing guidelines,
particularly with regards to enhancements for abuse of trust and vulnerability. In the case of
U.S.S.G. § 3B1.3, an enhancement is permitted if the defendant occupied a position of trust and
abused that position to facilitate the commission or concealment of the offense. Reference case 4
F.3d 925 supports this interpretation, stating that an abuse of trust is only appropriate if the
defendant occupied a position of trust, abused that position, and the abuse is not included in the
base level offense or specific offense characteristics.  In the instant case, the defendant, Mr.
Brunson, did not occupy a position of trust vis-a-vis the Russian Coal Company, and therefore, the
application of this enhancement is clearly erroneous. This is in line with the reasoning in
Reference case 5 F.3d 467, which states that an enhancement for abuse of trust is only appropriate
if the defendant occupied a position of trust and abused that position to facilitate the commission
or concealment of the offense.  Additionally, the district court erred in applying the two-point
sentence enhancement under U.S.S.G. § 3A1.1, which provides for an enhancement if the defendant knew
or should have known that a victim of the offense was unusually vulnerable due to age, physical or
mental condition, or that a victim was otherwise particularly susceptible to the criminal conduct.
The court's finding that the Russian Coal Company was vulnerable due to a language barrier and
inexperience with a free market economy is insufficient to support a finding of special
vulnerability.  In conclusion, the district court's application of the enhancements under U.S.S.G. §
3B1.3 and U.S.S.G. § 3A1.1 is erroneous, and the case must be remanded for resentencing. The court's
findings were not supported by the evidence, and the enhancements were applied incorrectly. The
court's application of these enhancements was also not in line with the reasoning in the referenced
cases, which provide guidance on the application of these sentencing guidelines.


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['4 F.3d 925', '5 F.3d 467']

***short_citations_0:*** 4 F.3d 925

or used a special skill, in a manner that significantly facilitated the commission or concealment of the offense, increase by 2 levels. This adjustment may not be employed if an abuse of trust or skill is .included in the base offense level or specific offense characteristic. If this adjustment is based upon an abuse of a position of trust, it may be employed in addition to an adjustment under § 3B1.1 (Aggravating Role); if this adjustment is based solely on the use of a special skill, it may not' be employed in addition to an adjustment under § 3B1.1 (Aggravating Role). U.S.S.G. § 3B1.3, (Nov. 1, 1991 version). As the language of § 3B1.3 indicates, an enhancement for abuse of trust is appropriate only if 1) the defendant occupied a position of trust, 2) the defendant abused this position in a manner that significantly facilitated his or her offense, and 3) abuse of trust is not included in the base level offense or specific offense characteristics pertaining to the defendant’s crime. In the instant case, the district court concluded that the defendant’s offense involved an abuse of position of trust and applied the two-level enhancement permitted by § 3B1.3. The defendant argues that this two-level enhancement was inappropriate for two reasons. First, he argues that abuse of trust is included in his base offense level. Second, he argues that he did not occupy a position of trust. We will address each of these contentions in’ turn. A. Whether Abuse of

***short_citations_1:*** 5 F.3d 467

U.S.S.G. § 3B1.3.- Abuse of a position of trust is a factual determination that we will uphold unless clearly erroneous. United States v. Fox, 999 F.2d 483 (10th Cir.1993). An enhancement is proper if the defendant “abused a position of public or private trust, or used a special skill, in a manner that significantly facilitated ... the offense.” Id. Mr. Lowder contends that he used no position of trust or special skill to spend funds under § 1957.' He merely wrote checks for the company. The district court found that it was only because of his position as president of the sham corporations that he was entrusted with and able to spend the money. We recently set forth a number of factors relevant to this determination, including defendant’s level of knowledge and authority, the level of public trust, in defendant, and whether' the abuse could be easily or readily noticed. United States v. Williams, 966 F.2d 555, 557 (10th Cir.1992). Here, Mr. Lowder was a CPA who provided tax and financial advice to elderly and unsophisticated clients. He advised them to place their money with him and promised them security. As president of the corporations he was free to spend that money, without oversight. The district court did not err in finding an abuse of position of trust. VIII.The Government’s Closing Argument During rebuttal argument, the government attorney made the following remarks: Think about who' gets left out in one of these trials; The government gets a table here. We’ve

**prev_text:**
McKAY, Circuit Judge. The defendant, Mr. Brunson, was convicted of numerous counts of wire fraud,
laundering of monetary instruments, and engaging in monetary transactions in property derived from
specified unlawful activity in conjunction with a scheme to defraud the Russian Coal Company out of
several million dollars. 18 U.S.C. §§ 1343, 1956(a)(l)(A)(i), and 1957. He was forced to forfeit the
monies, properties, and proceeds traceable to the illegally acquired funds pursuant to 18 U.S.C. §
982(a)(1). Mr. Brunson has raised five issues on appeal. The first issue pertains to the defendant’s
competency to stand trial. Three of the issues concern the district court’s application of the
Sentencing Guidelines. Finally, Mr. Brunson challenges the district court’s order that he pay
restitution. We affirm in part, reverse in part, and remand. Mr. Brunson devised a scheme to defraud
the Russian Coal Corporation of over four million dollars. Of this sum, he received over one million
dollars. To obtain these funds, Mr. Brunson promised to build an automated brick plant in Russia. A
contract to this effect was signed in July 1992 in Del City, Oklahoma, by Mr. Brunson (as President
of Consolidated Services Corporation) and by a representative of the Russian Coal Corporation. The
total contract price was $4,395 million. An expert testified that a brick-making plant of the type
specified in the contract could not have been built for less than $10 million. On September 14,
1992, $1,318,480.00 was transferred by wire into Mr. Brunson’s personal bank account. Shortly
thereafter, Mr. Brunson began to dissipate these funds for personal use, including the purchase of
seventeen luxury and classic automobiles, the purchase of one residence, the rental of another
residence, vacation trips, computer software and hardware, college tuition for his son, jewelry,
furniture, home improvements, etc. Needless to say, these expenditures were unrelated to the
construction of a brick factory in Russia. Mr. Brunson did utilize some of the funds to lease a
warehouse and to purchase a few items of brick-making equipment. It appears, however, that these
acts were done solely in furtherance of the fraud, that is, to create the impression that CSC was a
viable business capable of fulfilling the contract. In fact, the only items ever sent to Russia were
approximately $1,000 worth of anchor bolts. By June 1993, when the original indictment against Mr.
Brunson was filed, only about $176,000 remained in the defendant’s account. Mr. Brunson’s trial was
held in November 1993, and he was convicted on all fifty-one counts. On appeal, Mr. Brunson contends
that the district court erred by failing to consider his competency during the time of trial. Mr.
Brunson did not raise the issue of his competency to stand trial until January 1994, after the trial
but prior to sentencing. Although the court did not believe there was any basis to believe that he
was incompetent, out of an “abundance of caution” he ordered a psychological examination and granted
a hearing on the issue. The district judge found Mr. Brunson to be competent based on his own
observations and the testimony both of the examining physician and Mr. Brun-son’s trial counsel. Mr.
Brunson has offered no credible basis for disturbing this finding on appeal. Mr. Brunson has claimed
that three errors were made in applying the Sentencing Guidelines. His first claim is that the
district court erred in its application of the grouping provisions. Specifically, Mr. Brun-son
claims that his multiple counts of conviction should be grouped under U.S.S.G. § 3D1.2(b) rather
than § 3D1.2(d). A determination of whether counts are appropriately grouped under the Guidelines is
an issue of law which we review de novo. United States v. Smith, 13 F.3d 1421, 1428 (10th Cir.),
cert. denied, — U.S. —, 115 S.Ct. 209, 130 L.Ed.2d 138 (1994). Mr. Brunson’s claim is without merit.
We find no error in the manner in which the sentencing court applied the grouping provisions. Mr.
Brunson also disputes the application of two victim-related adjustments to his sentence. We find
these arguments to be meritorious. Mr. Brunson received a two-point sentence enhancement under
U.S.S.G. § 3A1.1, which provides for an enhancement “[i]f the defendant knew or should have known
that a victim of the offense was unusually vulnerable due to age, physical or mental condition, or
that a victim was otherwise particularly susceptible to the criminal conduct.” We uphold such
findings of the district court unless they are clearly erroneous. United States v. Lee, 973 F.2d
832, 833 (10th Cir.1992). However, never before have we held that a company engaged in an arms-
length business transaction could be classified as a “vulnerable victim,” and we decline to do so
here. In order to classify a victim as “vulnerable,” “the sentencing court must make particularized
findings of vulnerability.” Id. at 834. The focus of the inquiry must be on the “victim’s personal
or individual vulnerability.” Id. at 835; see also United States v. Creech, 913 F.2d 780, 781-82
(10th Cir.1990). For example, a frail, older woman recently weakened by a double mastectomy who was
targeted for a sexual assault was an unusually vulnerable victim. United States v. Pearce, 967 F.2d
434, 435 (10th Cir.), cert. denied, — U.S. —, 113 S.Ct. 341, 121 L.Ed.2d 257 (1992). Most recently,
we upheld an enhancement under § 3A1.1 based on a finding that the victims were elderly,
unsophisticated retirees who were fraudulently induced to invest their retirement funds in a phony
investment scam. United States v. Lowder, 5 F.3d 467, 472 (10th Cir.1993). As these cases indicate,
“vulnerable victims” are those who are in need of greater societal protection. It is doubtful that a
state-owned business entity would ever qualify as a vulnerable victim; this is certainly true of a
corporation engaged in multi-million dollar international transactions. Although it is true that the
Russian Coal Company employed as its agent an elderly gentleman who appeared to be unsophisticated
and inexperienced in the international business arena, it was the company, not the agent, that was
the victim of the crime. Section 3A1.1 is not intended to protect businesses from their own
incompetence by providing an enhancement above and beyond the normal criminal sanctions. The
district court seemed to suggest that the mere fact that the Russian Coal Company engaged in the
transaction proved that they were a vulnerable victim. “[O]ne can conclude that the very fact that
they entered into negotiations and, indeed, concluded a contract with this defendant, under the
circumstances, is evidence of naivete and inexperience and lack of sophistication.” (Trial
transcript at 1322-23). The fact that they were victimized is insufficient, by itself, to show that
they were especially vulnerable. More specifically, the court held that the Russian Coal Company was
vulnerable “because of the language barrier as well' as inexperience with a free market economy.”
(Presentence report at 4). As we have stated previously, the “victim’s vulnerability made the
attempted crime possible, but ... did not make [the victim] an unusually vulnerable victim.” Creech,
913 F.2d at 782 (quoting, United States v. Moree, 897 F.2d 1329, 1336 (5th Cir.1990)). We may take
judicial notice that foreign companies, even those from formerly socialist economies, conclude
contracts with American companies all the time. These two factors are insufficient to support a
finding of special vulnerability. The district court also placed great weight on the fact that Mr.
Brunson apparently singled out foreign companies because they could be more easily duped. While it
is true that the defendant targeted the Russian Coal Company for his fraudulent scheme because he
thought that they might fall for it, the same could be said of virtually all schemes to defraud. It
is logical to assume the intended victim of any premeditated offense will be selected because
something in his or her persona or circumstances will make successful the intended criminal act. We
must therefore assume the Commission adopted § 3A1.1 to enhance a defendant’s punishment for an act
of depravity. Creech, 913 F.2d at 782. In Creech, we held that singling out newlywed husbands for
extortionate threats directed at their wives did not warrant a § 3A1.1 enhancement. We cannot say
that focusing on foreign companies as potential victims is more depraved than that. Mr. Brunson also
challenges the application of a two-point sentence enhancement under U.S.S.G. § 3B1.3. This section
provides for an increase for defendants who abuse a position of trust that they occupy in relation
to the victim. We find the application of this section to Mr. Brunson to be clearly erroneous
because Mr. Brunson did not occupy a position of trust vis-a-vis the Russian Coal Company in this
transaction. In the typical case where § 3B1.3 applies, the victim is a business and the defendant
is an employee who has taken advantage of the knowledge and responsibilities acquired by virtue of
his or her position within the company to embezzle or otherwise steal from the company. Their
“position of trust must have contributed in some significant way to facilitating the commission or
concealment of the defense {e.g., by making the detection of the offense or the defendant’s
responsibility for the offense more difficult.)” U.S.S.G. § 3B1.3 cmt. 1; see, e.g., United States
v. Johnson, 4 F.3d 904 (10th Cir.1993), cert. denied, — U.S. —, 114 S.Ct. 1082, 127 L.Ed.2d 398
(1994) (bank vault teller conspired with others to rob bank vault using knowledge of security
procedures to avoid detection); United States v. Fox, 999 F.2d 483 (10th Cir.1993) (credit card
company employee issued card to herself under another person’s account, made charges, then covered
up delinquency on computer); United States v. Levy, 992 F.2d 1081 (10th Cir.1993) (president of
bankrupt company embezzled funds, defrauding trustee and creditors); United States v. Chimal, 976
F.2d 608 (10th Cir.1992), cert. denied, — U.S. —, 113 S.Ct. 1331, 122 L.Ed.2d 715 (1993)
(embezzlement by company controller); United States v. Williams, 966 F.2d 555 (10th Cir.1992)
(embezzlement by military pay accountant). Clearly, this case does not fall into this category.


