**gold_text:**
. Delendanl relics on two opinions, Montilla v. ÍNS, 926 F.2d 162 (2d Cir.1991) ("Montilla") and
Waldron v. INS, 994 F.2d 71 (2d Cir.1993) ("Waldron I ”), for the proposition that there is no
requirement that a fundamental error be prejudicial in order for a motion to suppress such as this
one to succeed. Defendant misapprehends the law in this area. Montilla is inapposite because it
applies only in the context of a direct appeal Irom a deportation order. Fares, decided after
Mantilla, clearly established the law in this circuit with regard to collateral attacks such as this
one and Fares requires a finding of prejudice.

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
In light of the issues raised in defendant Juan Jimenez’s motion, it is necessary to address the
pertinent legal precedents regarding the waiver of the right to counsel during deportation
proceedings.   In Montilla v. INS, the Second Circuit established that an alien claiming the INS
failed to adhere to its own regulations need not demonstrate prejudice to obtain relief (926 F.2d
162, 167-69). This standard emphasizes that, as long as the regulations were designed to benefit the
alien and were not followed, relief is warranted (Id. at 169). However, the distinction between
Montilla and the current case lies in the nature of the rights and the context examined. Montilla
dealt with the waiver of the right to counsel, considered a fundamental right under the Sixth
Amendment and aligned with the Fifth Amendment due process (994 F.2d 71).  Here, although Judge
Page's coercive remarks during the defendant’s deportation hearing indeed violated due process,
resulting in the defendant's waiver of counsel and appeal rights as involuntary, subsequent
examination reveals no prejudice. According to Fares, despite procedural irregularities, the
requirement for a collateral challenge includes showing that those irregularities resulted in
fundamental unfairness and possible relief (978 F.2d 52, 57).  Given defendant’s aggravated felony
convictions, statutory grounds precluded relief from deportation, establishing no fundamental
unfairness (8 U.S.C. § 1254(a)(2), § 1254(e)). Additionally, the potential for a habeas attack on
narcotics convictions lacks substantiation in the evidence presented. Consequently, despite the
procedural shortcomings, the defendant has not demonstrated prejudice that would invalidate the
previous deportation order. Therefore, the motion to preclude the use of the 1994 deportation order
is denied.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
 The case of Sotomayor v. Jimenez presents a complex issue of whether the 1994 deportation order can
be used as evidence in a subsequent criminal trial for illegal reentry. The defendant, Jimenez,
argues that the waiver of his right to counsel and appeal was coerced and therefore invalid. The
court must consider whether the deportation hearing was fundamentally unfair and whether Jimenez was
prejudiced by the lack of counsel and appeal.  In Montilla v. INS, 926 F.2d 162, the court held that
an alien is not required to show prejudice before being entitled to relief if the INS failed to
adhere to its own regulations. The court also emphasized that the right to counsel is a fundamental
right that must be carefully considered. In this case, the court found that the threat of indefinite
imprisonment was coercive and therefore invalid.  In Waldron v. INS, 994 F.2d 71, the court held
that an alien must demonstrate prejudice before being entitled to relief if the INS failed to adhere
to its own regulations. The court found that the alien's failure to show prejudice was a fatal flaw
in his argument.  In this case, the court found that the deportation hearing was procedurally
infirm, but that the errors did not prejudice Jimenez. The court noted that the defendant had failed
to demonstrate that either counsel or an appeal could have yielded him any possible relief from
deportation. The court also found that the defendant's argument that counsel might have successfully
launched a habeas corpus attack on his narcotics convictions was not supported by competent
evidence.  In conclusion, the court's decision is consistent with the precedent established in
Montilla and Waldron. The court found that the deportation hearing was procedurally infirm, but that
the errors did not prejudice Jimenez. The court's decision is also consistent with the doctrine of
the "presumption of regularity" that attaches to final judgments, even when the question is waiver
of constitutional rights.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-finetuned:***
  . See Montilla v. INS, 926 F.2d 162, 169 (2d Cir. 1991) (hereinafter, “Montilla I “) (holding that
an alien need not show prejudice before obtaining relief when the INS fails to adhere to its own
regulations); Waldron v. INS, 994 F.2d 71, 76-77 (2d Cir. 1993) (hereinafter, “Waldron “) (applying
Montilla I to the instant case, where the INS failed to comply with its own regulations). See also
INS v. Lopez-Mendoza, 468 U.S. 1032, 1045, 104 S.Ct. 3479, 3486, 82 L.Ed.2d 778 (1984) (holding that
an alien need not show prejudice before obtaining relief when the INS fails to comply with its own
regulations). (Citations omitted). The INS, however, argues that the instant case is distinguishable
from Montilla I because the instant case involves a deportation proceeding, while Montilla I
involved a criminal proceeding. This distinction, however, is not sufficient to overcome the
prejudice standard. Waldron, 994 F.2d at 76-77. The INS also argues that the instant case is
distinguishable from Montilla I because the instant case involves a deportation proceeding, while
Montilla I involved a criminal proceeding. This distinction, however, is not sufficient to overcome
the prejudice standard. Waldron, 994 F.2d at 76-77. The INS also argues that the instant case is
distinguishable from Montilla I because the instant case involves a deportation proceeding, while
Montilla I involved a criminal proceeding. This distinction, however, is not sufficient to overcome
the prejudice standard. Waldron, 994 F.2d at 76-77. The INS also argues that the instant case is
distinguishable from Montilla I because the instant case involves a deportation proceeding, while
Montilla I involved a criminal proceeding. This distinction, however, is not sufficient to overcome
the prejudice standard. Waldron, 994 F.2d at 76-77. The INS also argues that the instant case is
distinguishable from Montilla I because the instant case involves a deportation proceeding, while
Montilla I involved a criminal proceeding. This distinction, however, is not sufficient to overcome
the prejudice standard. Waldron, 994 F.2d at 76-77.


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['926 F.2d 162', '994 F.2d 71']

***short_citations_0:*** 926 F.2d 162

to counsel in a deportation hearing is not required to make a showing of prejudice before he is entitled to relief. All that need be shown is that the subject regulations were for the alien’s benefit and that the INS failed to adhere to them. IV Application of Accardi We turn now to application of the Accardi doctrine and the INS regulations to the facts in the instant case. Here the record indicates Montilla was advised of his right to counsel by the immigration judge at the January 25, 1989 hearing, but was never required to state on the record whether or not he desired such representation. Petitioner’s reply to the judge’s question was unresponsive. This was the sole inquiry the judge made regarding whether defendant wanted to have counsel present to represent him at the hearing. We believe petitioner’s response — one that demonstrated complete ignorance on this subject — tellingly reveals his unawareness of the nature of the privilege available to him. The record shows Montilla never faced and decided this question which the regulation required the immigration judge to elicit from him. Hence, the judge failed to comply with 8 C.F.R. § 242.16(a). Nor do we agree with the INS’ conclusion that Montilla waived his right to counsel. It is true that an alien may waive that right in deportation proceedings, and such a waiver will be upheld if voluntarily made. See, e.g., Farrokhi, 900 F.2d at 701-02; Reyes-Palacios v. INS, 836 F.2d 1154, 1155 (9th Cir.1988);

***short_citations_1:*** 994 F.2d 71

to Waldron. Accordingly, we now turn to the underlying merits of Waldron’s claims. II. The Montilla Precedent Next, the INS argues that even if § 242.2(g) and § 3.7 apply to Waldron, and even if the IJ failed to comply with these regulations, Waldron is not entitled to any relief because he is required to demonstrate prejudice from the failure to comply with INS regulations. However, in Montilla v. INS, we rejected the “prejudice” standard set forth in United States v. Calderon-Medina, 591 F.2d 529 (9th Cir.1979), and held that an alien who claims that the INS failed to adhere to its own regulations in a deportation hearing was not required to show prejudice before the alien was entitled to relief. Montilla, 926 F.2d at 167-69. “All that need be shown is that the subject regulations were for the alien’s benefit and that the INS failed to adhere to them.” Id. at 169. Nevertheless, the INS argues that the instant case is distinguishable from Montilla because Montilla dealt with the right to counsel, a fundamental right derived from the sixth amendment right to counsel in criminal cases and the fifth- amendment right to due process in civil cases, and enshrined in § 292 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. § 1362. When a regulation is mandated by the Constitution or federal law, the INS maintains, a court’s duty to enforce the regulation is “most evident.” United States v. Caceres, 440 U.S. 741, 749, 99 S.Ct. 1465, 1470, 59 L.Ed.2d 733 (1979).

**prev_text:**
MEMORANDUM OPINION AND ORDER SOTOMAYOR, District Judge. Defendant Juan Jimenez moves to preclude the
Government from use of a 1994 deportation order in the Government’s current prosecution of the
defendant for illegal reentry after having been deported, a violation of 8 U.S.C. § 1326. For the
reasons discussed below, the defendant’s motion is denied. BACKGROUND The defendant is a citizen of
the Dominican Republic, who by his own admission entered the United States illegally in October,
1991. Ex. I to Aff. of Assistant U.S. Attorney Lynn A. Neils (hereinafter, “Neils Aff.”); Ex. Q to
Neils Aff., Transcript of Deportation Hearing at 11 (hereinafter, “Tr.”). In 1992, defendant was
twice arrested in New York City, under the name Juan Jimenez, for selling cocaine. On September 15,
1993, defendant pled guilty to two counts of attempted criminal sale of cocaine in the third degree.
He received concurrent sentences of six months imprisonment to be followed by four-and-one-half
years of probation. While incarcerated, defendant was interviewed by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service (“INS”), and stated that his name was Juan Jimenez and that he had entered
the U.S. illegally. He was thereafter notified that he was subject to deportation pursuant to the
Immigration and Naturalization Act (“INA”), for violation of 8 U.S.C. §§ 1251(a)(1)(B) (illegal
entry), 1251(a)(2)(A)(iii) (conviction of an aggravated felony), and 1251(a)(2)(B)(i) (conviction of
a drug offense other than personal use possession). After he completed the incarceration portion of
his sentence (two months having been credited for good behavior), the INS took defendant into
custody on the three described charges and informed him that he was eligible to be released on a
$15,000 bond while awaiting the deportation decision. Defendant was unable to post the bond. On
January 4, 1994, defendant appeared before Immigration Law Judge Alan L. Page to answer the INA
charges. Judge Page ruled against the defendant and ordered him deported. The defendant was deported
on January 24, 1994. The defendant was arrested on the instant charge, illegal reentry after having
been deported, on February 22, 1995. DISCUSSION This motion challenges the adequacy of the
defendant’s waiver of his right to counsel and to appeal at the deportation hearing. For the reasons
set forth below, I find that the waivers were tainted by a coercive chill emanating from Judge
Page’s actions, but I find his errors did not prejudice the defendant. The Supreme Court has
established the right of an alien to challenge collaterally his indictment for illegal reentry by
attack upon the underlying deportation order. U.S. v. Mendoza-Lopez, 481 U.S. 828, 838, 107 S.Ct.
2148, 2155, 95 L.Ed.2d 772 (1987) (“Mendoza-Lopez”) (“where the defects in an administrative
proceeding foreclose judicial review of that proceeding, an alternative means of obtaining judicial
review must be made available”); see also U.S. v. Fa,res, 978 F.2d 52, 56 (2d Cir.1992) (same)
(“Fares”). The Supreme Court has declined to enumerate each of the procedural defects that would per
se be so corrosive of an alien’s rights as to render the fact of deportation inadmissible in a later
trial for illegal reentry. U.S. v. Mendoza-Lopez, 481 U.S. at 839 n. 17, 107 S.Ct. at 2155-56 n. 17.
But it clearly did decide that a waiver of the right to appeal must be “considered” and
“intelligent” in order for the hearing to pass muster. Id. at 840, 107 S.Ct. at 2156. The right to
counsel was also implicated in Mendoza-Lopez as it was among the procedural defects the petitioner
cited. Id. at 831, 107 S.Ct. at 2151. Mendoza-Lopez also contemplated an additional enquiry into
whether the denial of the fundamental right resulted in prejudice to the defendant. Because
respondents were deprived of their rights to appeal, and, of any basis to appeal since the only
relief for which they would have been, eligible ivas not adequately explained to them, the
deportation proceeding in which these events occurred may not be used to support a criminal
conviction.... Id. at 842,” 107 S.Ct. at 2157 (emphasis added). Our circuit has explicitly required
that prejudice must be addressed when a district court reviews, on a collateral challenge, the
propriety of a deportation hearing. The discussion in Mendoza-Lopez, however, suggests that for a
collateral challenge to a deportation order to be successful, the alien must not only show that he
was effectively deprived of his right of direct appeal, but also that the administrative proceedings
were fundamentally unfair in some respect that would have entitled him to relief on direct
appeal.... We are persuaded that if an alien has been effectively denied his right of direct appeal
from the deportation order, we should examine the underlying proceedings to determine whether or not
he was unfairly prejudiced by those proceedings. If we find no fundamental unfairness, and we
therefore conclude that a fully informed exercise of the right of direct appeal would have yielded
the alien no relief from deportation, the deportation order may be used to establish conclusively an
element of a criminal offense. Fares, 978 F.2d at 57 (citations omitted). I now analyze the motion
before me in light of this two-step procedure. The facts of defendant’s hearing are troubling. The
defendant was not represented by counsel. Because he speaks little English, a Spanish language
interpreter was provided. The exercise of defendant’s right of representation and appeal were, from
the outset, counterpoised against the defendant’s freedom. After being apprised of his right to
counsel, defendant stated: “I have no money to pay for the bond.” The transcript then reads as
follows: JUDGE: Sir, forget about the bond right now. So you ... the government claims that you’re
paroled for deportation only. Is that true? DEFENDANT: Yes. JUDGE: Do you understand what that
means, sir? [SILENCE] JUDGE: What it means is the only reason that the State of New York paroled you
into INS custody was so that you could be deported. JUDGE: Do you understand that? DEFENDANT: Yes.
JUDGE: You have every right to fight your immigration case. However, if you do that, if you exercise
that right, then the Immigration Service will make arrangements to have New York State parole pick
you up, and they will take you back into custody because the only reason they paroled you was to be
deported. And if your going to fight the deporta,tiort, then they’re gonna, lock you up again and it
ivill be up to them, hatv much time you’ll have to spend. Tr. at 2-3 (Spanish interpretation
omitted) (emphasis added). The defendant thereafter replied affirmatively to Judge Page’s request
for a waiver of counsel. At the end of the hearing, the judge stated: JUDGE: Knowing all those
factors, sir, do you wish to accept my decision as a final decision, or do you wish to appeal my
decision to a higher court? DEFENDANT: I just want to leave. No waiver of any right is valid if
extracted upon an official threat of imprisonment. Courts have long held that judges should “indulge
every reasonable presumption against waiver of fundamental constitutional rights.” Johnson v.
Zerbst, 304 U.S. 458, 464, 58 S.Ct. 1019, 1023, 82 L.Ed. 1461 (1938) (citations and internal
quotation marks omitted). Judge Page’s statement that “if your going to fight the deportation, then
they’re gonna lock you up again and it will be up to them how much time you’ll have to spend”
contravenes any reasonable notion of due process. Any reasonable person in the defendant’s position
at the outset of the hearing would have been placed in terrorem by the threat that any exercise of
his rights, indeed any contestation of the deportation, would result in imprisonment for an
indefinite term. The defendant’s response to Judge Page’s question regarding appeal, ie. “I just
want to leave,” shows the residual effects of the initial colloquy that left open the prospect of
indefinite incarceration. Even if the defendant had been subject to revocation of his parole and
reimprisonment, the linking by a judge of indefinite imprisonment to failure to waive a fundamental
right infects the entire proceeding with a coercive stench. The Government’s recital of various
documents furnished to the defendant prior to the hearing apprising him of his rights to counsel and
appeal, and the oral notice given by Judge Page at the hearing, are insufficient to vitiate the
powerful impact that the threat of continued imprisonment, for an unspecified duration, must have
had on the defendant. Any waiver extracted thereafter can only be considered void. On this record
then, clearly the Immigration Law Judge was in error and I find that the defendant did not
voluntarily waive his right to counsel or to appeal. I now turn to the issue of prejudice. Defendant
argues that the right to counsel is a fundamental right in which prejudice should be presumed. As
discussed above, however, the Second Circuit in Fares has made it clear that collateral attacks on
deportation orders require positive proof of a fundamental unfairness which deprives an alien of
possible relief from a deportation order. Fares, 978 F.2d at 57. In the instant case, defendant has
failed to show that either the assistance of counsel or an appeal could have yielded him any
possible relief from deportation. Only two forms of relief from deportation were generally
available: suspension of deportation pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1254(a)(2), and voluntary departure
pursuant to 8 U.S.C. § 1254(e). The defendant, because of his narcotics convictions, was statutorily
ineligible for either, however. Under both provisions, the applicant must demonstrate “good moral
character.” Pursuant to 8 U.S.C. 1101(f)(3), persons described in 8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(2)(A)(i)(II)
(“any alien convicted of____ a violation of ... any law or regulation of a State ... relating to a
controlled substance____”) cannot be considered to be of “good moral character.” Additionally, no
one convicted of an “aggravated felony” is eligible for voluntary departure. 8 U.S.C. § 1254(e)(2).
The INA defines “aggravated felony” as, inter alia, “illicit trafficking in a controlled
substance....” 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(43). Thus, defendant has failed to demonstrate prejudice in that
neither counsel nor an appeal would have resulted in relief from deportation. Recognizing his
infirmity on the prejudice standard, defendant nevertheless argues that counsel might have
successfully launched a habeas corpus attack on his narcotics convictions, thereby invalidating the
basis for deportation. But defendant has offered no competent evidence or basis upon which such an
attack could have been made and I therefore do not consider this mere allegation of a possible
habeas attack as sufficient to demonstrate prejudice. CONCLUSION For the reasons discussed above, I
find that although the challenged deportation hearing was procedurally infirm, the errors did not
prejudice the defendant and thus the deportation order may be presented to the jury as proof of an
element of the crime charged. The motion to preclude use of the 1994 deportation order at trial is
therefore DENIED. so Ordered. . Defendanl also moved for a bill of particulars, discovery and
inspection, and disclosure of Brady, Giglio and impeachment materials. Defendant has not objected to
the government's response to these requests and I, absent advice by the defendant to the contrary,
grant this aspect of defendant's motion to the extent of the government response. . In assessing the
validity collateral attacks on prior convictions when used as elements of subsequent indictments,
the Supreme Court has enunciated the doctrine of the " 'presumption of regularity' that attaches to
linal judgments, even when the question is waiver of constitutional rights.” Parke v. Raley, 506
U.S. 20, 29, 113 S.Ct. 517, 523, 121 L.Ed.2d 391 (1992), reh'g denied, 506 U.S. 1087, 113 S.Ct.
1068, 122 L.Ed.2d 372 (1993) (citing Johnson v. Zerbsl, 304 U.S. 458, 58 S.Ct. 1019, 82 L.Ed. 1461
(1938)).


