**gold_text:**
We believe that the contextualized approach of the Seventh Circuit in Gregory v. Home Ins. Co., 876
F.2d 602 (7th Cir.1989), is appropriate and consistent with our prior holdings. Gregory held that
the term “related” had a common meaning sufficiently clear to be applied to the particular facts at
issue. Noting that the meaning of “related” “covers a very broad range of connections, both causal
and logical,” Gregory still found that the facts of the case “comfortably fit within” the term’s
natural scope. Id. at 606; see also Continental Cas. Co. v. Wendt, 205 F.3d 1258, 1263-64 (11th
Cir.2000) (per curiam) (adopting opinion in Continental Cos. Co. v. Hall, No. 97-323-CIV-OC-10B
(M.D.Fla.1999), which used the dictionary definition of “related” and found that certain wrongful
acts, although involving various types of acts that produced different harms, were clearly related
because they were “aimed at a single particular goal,” and constituted “a single course of
conduct”). We will not automatically conclude that such broad terms are necessarily ambiguous and
will not always construe them in favor of the insured. See Gregory, 876 F.2d at 606. We conclude
that a term should be found unambiguous if the facts of the case “comfortably fit within the
commonly accepted definition of the concept,” but may be ambiguous if the facts fall on the margins
of a broad reading. See id. The facts of McCuen were close to the margins; this case is not.

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
Highwoods contends that the terms "related" and "series" are ambiguous, as the court found with
similar terms in McCuen v. American Cas. Co., 946 F.2d 1401, 1408 (8th Cir.1991). However, the
precedent in Gregory v. Home Ins. Company, 876 F.2d 602 (7th Cir.1989) clarifies that the word
“related” covers a broad range of connections, both causal and logical. This understanding is
further supported by 205 F.3d 1258, which emphasizes that “related” encompasses both logical and
causal connections. Applying these definitions, the court concluded that the factual nexus between
Wright and Flake, despite their distinct legal theories and remedies sought, was sufficiently
intertwined through the merger's overarching context to deem them related claims under the policy's
language. Therefore, there is no ambiguity as Highwoods suggests, and the district court's
interpretation aligning with Gregory's reasoning remains valid, affirming the applicability of the
related claims provision.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
 <answer>  In the case of Highwoods Properties, Inc. v. Executive Risk Indemnity, Inc., the court
was tasked with interpreting the insurance policy's "related claims" provision. The provision stated
that all related claims would be treated as a single claim made when the earliest of such related
claims was first made.  The court analyzed the definition of "related claims" and determined that it
encompassed both logical and causal connections. The court cited the Seventh Circuit's decision in
Gregory v. Home Ins. Company, 876 F.2d 602, which held that the common understanding of the word
"related" covers a broad range of connections.  The court also considered the North Carolina law
regarding the interpretation of insurance contracts, which provides that the goal is to arrive at
the intent of the parties when the policy was issued. The court applied this principle to the case,
concluding that a reasonable person in the position of the insured would have understood the
language of the policy to mean that claims related to the same facts, circumstances, situations,
transactions, or events would be treated as a single claim.  The court ultimately concluded that the
claims made by Wright and Flake were related, citing the "related claims" provision in the policy.
The court found that the claims were based on the same facts, circumstances, situations,
transactions, or events, and that they were part of the same series of facts.  In reaching its
decision, the court considered the reasoning of the Arizona court in Helme, which was criticized in
Gregory for interpreting the term "related" too narrowly. The court also noted that the "related
claims" provision was a condition that narrowed the scope of coverage, and that it was intended to
ensure that related claims were treated as a single claim.  The court's decision was supported by
the precedent set in 205 F.3d 1258, which held that the term "related" in an insurance policy
encompasses both logical and causal connections.  In conclusion, the court's decision in Highwoods
Properties, Inc. v. Executive Risk Indemnity, Inc. demonstrates the importance of carefully
interpreting the language of an insurance policy, particularly the "related claims" provision. The
court's analysis was guided by North Carolina law and the precedent set in Gregory v. Home Ins.
Company, 876 F.2d 602, and ultimately resulted in a finding that the claims made by Wright and Flake
were related. <answer>


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['876 F.2d 602', '205 F.3d 1258']

***short_citations_0:*** 876 F.2d 602

that the common understanding of the word “related” covers a very broad range of connections, both causal and logical. However, we don’t think the rule requiring insurance policies to be construed against the party who chose the language requires such a drastic restriction of the natural scope of the definition of the word “related.” Parties are generally free to include language of their choice in contracts, and courts should refrain from rewriting them. E.g., Evans v. National Life Accident Ins. Co., 467 N.E.2d 1216, 1219 (Ind.App.1984). At some point, of course, a logical connection may be too tenuous reasonably to be called a relationship, and the rule of restrictive reading of broad language would come into play. The facts of this case, though, as concisely explained by Judge Dillin, comfortably fit within the commonly accepted definition of the concept. The district court was correct in deciding that under Home Insurance’s insurance policy the claim of Producer’s Brokerage Co., Inc. was required to be treated in combination with the claims of the Gregory class as a single claim. Accordingly, the $500,000 per claim limit of liability applies for the purpose of the Settlement Agreement between the parties. The judgment of the district court is Affirmed. . Jurisdiction is founded on diversity. The district court held that the appropriate substantive law is New Jersey’s, but the court and the parties appear to have agreed that, because there are no substantial differences, Indiana law would apply instead. . The parties settled before any

***short_citations_1:*** 205 F.3d 1258

used encompasses both logical and causal connections); St. Paul Fire & Marine Insurance Co. v. Chong, 787 F.Supp. 183, 186-87 (D. Kansas 1992)(holding the term “series of related wrongful acts” to be ambiguous and construing the term narrowly to refer solely to “multiple causally connected” acts); Gregory v. Home Ins. Company, 876 F.2d 602, 605-06 (7th Cir.1989)(noting that the word “related” covers a very broad range of connections, both causal and logical). I believe that the most persuasive of these authorities is the Seventh Circuit decision in Gregory. The words “relate” or “related” are commonly understood terms in everyday usage. They are defined in the dictionary as meaning a “logical or causal connection between” two events. See Webster’s Third New International Dictionary (1981). There is no ambiguity unless one is created through the device of simply ignoring one half of the definition. This is essentially the flaw in the reasoning of the Arizona court in Helme, supra, as recognized in Gregory. The Seventh Circuit said: We agree with the Helme court that the common understanding of the word “related” covers a very broad range of connections, both causal and logical. However, we don’t think the rule requiring insurance policies to be construed against the party who chose the language requires such a drastic restriction of the natural scope of the definition of the word “related.” Parties are generally free to include language of their choice in contracts, and courts should refrain from rewriting them. At some point, of course, a

**prev_text:**
WOLLMAN, Circuit Judge. Highwoods Properties, Inc. appeals from the district court’s grant of
summary judgment in favor of Executive Risk Indemnity, Inc., asserting that the district court erred
in concluding that Highwoods was not entitled to coverage under its 1998 insurance policy with
Executive Risk for its losses as a result of a lawsuit filed against it as an entity. We affirm. I.
This case involves the interpretation of two insurance policies and the determination of which
policy applies in light of two lawsuits — one filed in state court prior to the completion of a
corporate takeover, and the other filed in federal court after the takeover. Highwoods first
purchased a claims-made policy in 1996 to-insure its directors and officers in the event that claims
were filed against them. The policy did not include coverage for the company as an entity, covering
only claims made against individuals in covered positions within the company during the policy
period from June 30, 1996, to June 30, 1998. Highwoods Insurance Policy No. 751-036108-96 (1996
Policy). Highwoods arranged a merger with J.C. Nichols Company, a Missouri real estate company, that
was to occur July 13, 1998. In January 1998, Dennis Wright, a J.C. Nichols shareholder, filed a
lawsuit on behalf of himself and a potential class of shareholders (never certified) against J.C.
Nichols, J.C. Nichols’s officers, and High-woods, claiming breach of fiduciary duty and seeking to
enjoin the merger. Class Action Complaint, Wright v. Hoskins (Mo. Cir.Ct., Jan. 8, 1998) (No.
CV98-0380). Highwoods filed a motion to dismiss, contending that it did not at that time have a
fiduciary obligation to J.C. Nichols shareholders. The state court granted the motion and dismissed
Wright’s claims against Highwoods. Soon after Wright was filed, Highwoods notified Executive Risk
that a claim had been filed against it and sought coverage. Executive Risk denied coverage, stating
that “[tjhere is no coverage for the corporate entity other than for its obligation to indemnify
Insured Persons... It is our understanding that no such proceeding has been commenced against any
Insured Person. Therefore, there is at this time no ‘Claim’ as defined in [the policy].” Joint
Appendix (JA) 855. Highwoods negotiated a new insurance policy in 1998 having a policy period from
June 30, 1998 to June 30, 2001. Highwoods Insurance Policy No. 751-123663-98 (1998 Policy). Although
it was also a claims-made policy, it included entity coverage for company securities claims in
addition to coverage for High-woods directors and officers. John Flake moved to be substituted for
Wright in the original lawsuit, but then voluntarily dismissed the claims without prejudice in state
court. Flake instead filed a lawsuit in federal district court on October 2, 1998, claiming that
J.C. Nichols and Highwoods violated federal securities laws based on misrepresentations in the
prospectus and registration statement that were disseminated in connection with the merger. Class
Action Complaint, Flake v. Hoskins (D.Kan. Oct. 2, 1998) (No. 98-02450). A class of shareholders was
certified, seeking money damages. Highwoods eventually settled the class action for $5.7 million,
after spending $4.8 million defending the lawsuit. Highwoods notified Executive Risk when Flake was
filed in federal court and sought coverage under the 1998 policy. Executive Risk again rejected
coverage, stating that Flake was not a claim made within the policy period of the 1998 policy
because a previous “purported class action [Wright] relating to the [merger] was brought against the
same defendants” and related claims are treated as having been made when the first claim was made.
JA 981. Flake was therefore considered to be “a Claim made within the policy period of the 1996
Policy.” Id. Because the 1996 policy did not provide entity coverage, Executive Risk would not
provide coverage for Flake. Highwoods filed suit against Executive Risk in Missouri state court to
recover its unreimbursed losses. Executive Risk removed the case to the United States District Court
for the Western District of Missouri based on diversity, and both parties moved for summary
judgment. The district court granted summary judgment for Executive Risk, finding that Wright was a
prior claim that barred coverage for Flake under the 1998 policy’s “related claims” provision. See
1998 Policy § II(K). It concluded that Flake was related to Wright because it involved a “related
series of facts, circumstances, situations, transactions or events.” D. Ct. Order of Oct 12, 1999,
at 19-20 (declining to find ambiguity and stating that “liability is clearly precluded” under the
phrase “related series of facts” because the Flake claim “is best described as the Wright Claim’s
successor”). The court concluded that “no objectively reasonable insured operating under the 1998
Policy could have expected that the Flake Federal Claim would be covered.” Id. at 21-22. II. The
outcome of this case turns on two inquiries: whether Wright falls within the definition of “claim”
in the 1998 policy, and whether Flake is a related claim that is therefore considered to be the same
claim as Wright, which was made outside the relevant policy period. The parties do not dispute that
the 1996 policy did not include entity coverage or that the 1998 policy did include such coverage.
They disagree, however, over whether the loss for Flake is covered by the terms of the 1998 policy.
Highwoods argues that Flake is an independent claim made during the policy period of the 1998 policy
and that it is thus a covered claim based on the entity coverage included in the 1998 policy. It
asserts that Wright did not qualify as a claim under either policy and, alternatively, that it could
not be considered a related claim to Flake because Flake was grounded in different facts and
distinct legal theories. Executive Risk argues that Flake and Wright are related claims under the
1998 policy because both claims arose out of the merger between J.C. Nichols and High-woods,
included similar allegations, and involved both the same putative class of plaintiffs and the same
defendants. We review a district court’s grant of summary judgment de novo, applying the same
standard as the district court. Michalski v. Bank of Am. Ariz., 66 F.3d 993, 995 (8th Cir.1995). As
a general matter, we will affirm a grant of summary judgment if, viewing the evidence in the light
most favorable to the non-moving party, there is no dispute of material fact and the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law. Id. In this case, the parties do not dispute the facts, but
rather the application of the policy language to those facts as a matter of law. Because this is a
diversity case, we also review the district court’s interpretation of state law de novo. Id. In
diversity cases, we apply the choice of law principles of the state in which the district court is
located. Washburn v. Soper, 319 F.3d 338, 341 (8th Cir.2003). Missouri choice of law principles
establish, and the parties do not dispute, that North Carolina law applies to this dispute because
it is the state with the most significant relationship to the contract and the parties. See Superior
Equip. Co. v. Maryland Cas. Co., 986 S.W.2d 477, 480 (Mo.Ct.App.1998) (noting that Missouri has
adopted the “most significant relationship” test, which requires the court to consider: “(a) the
place of contracting; (b) the place of negotiation of the contract; (c) the place of performance;
(d) the location of the subject matter of the contract; and (e) the domicile, residence,
nationality, place of incorporation and place of business of the parties”). North Carolina law
provides that the goal in interpreting an insurance contract is to arrive at the intent of the
parties when the policy was issued, Wachovia Bank & Trust Co. v. Westchester Fire Ins. Co., 276 N.C.
348, 172 S.E.2d 518, 522 (1970), determined based upon “what a reasonable person in the position of
the insured would have understood [the language] to mean.” Woods v. Nationwide Mut. Ins. Co., 295
N.C. 500, 246 S.E.2d 773, 779 (1978) (quotation omitted). Every word should be given meaning, based
on the specific context, the policy as a whole, or ordinary usage. See Williams v. Nationwide Mut.
Ins. Co., 269 N.C. 235, 152 S.E.2d 102, 107 (1967). “Where a policy defines a term, that definition
is to be used. If no definition is given, non-technical words are to be given their meaning in
ordinary speech, unless the context clearly indicates another meaning was intended.” Gaston County
Dyeing Mach. Co. v. Northfield Ins. Co., 351 N.C. 293, 524 S.E.2d 558, 563 (2000). If there are
multiple common meanings, and the context does not clarify the one intended, the court should apply
“the meaning most favorable to the policyholder.” Wachovia, 172 S.E.2d at 522. A. We ask first
whether Wright constituted a claim as defined in the 1998 policy. As indicated above, when Executive
Risk was originally given notice of Wright, it refused coverage because Wright was not a type of
claim covered under the 1996 policy, in which the applicable definition of claim was limited to
proceedings against Highwoods’s directors and officers and did not include proceedings against the
company as an entity. Highwoods argues that it was unfair for Executive Risk to first deny that
Wright was a claim under the 1996 policy and to then assert that Wright was a claim under the 1998
policy that could operate to preclude coverage for subsequent factually-related claims. Highwoods’s
argument is unavailing because we are interpreting and applying only the 1998 policy, which was
neither an extension of nor included all of the same terms as the 1996 policy. The definition of
“claim” in the 1998 policy stands alone, based on the description of the term in that policy; its
meaning depends neither upon whether a lawsuit would have been recognized as a claim under a prior
policy with different coverage nor upon whether coverage for that claim has already been sought and
denied. Whether a legal proceeding meets the policy definition of “claim” is a threshold question.
The remaining language of the policy establishes whether the claim is covered by the policy. The
term “claim” in the 1998 policy broadly encompasses proceedings against directors and officers, but
includes only one type of claim against the entity: a “company securities claim.” 1998 Policy, E.
10(4) (indicating that, for the purpose of integrating entity coverage, added by endorsement 10,
into the remainder of the policy, “the term ‘Claim’ will also include any Company Securities
Claim”). Endorsement 10, which added entity coverage, defines a company securities claim as “any
Claim brought or maintained against the Company, but not against any Insured Person, for a Security
Activity Wrongful Act.” 1998 Policy, E.10(l)(e). It then defines a security activity wrongful act
as: [A]ny actual or alleged act, error, omission, misstatement, misleading statement or breach of
duty by the Company ..., but only in connection with a purchase or sale, or an offer to purchase or
sell, securities issued at any time by the Company. 1998 Policy, E.10(3). We conclude that Wright
was a company securities claim because it was brought against Highwoods as an entity and alleged a
breach of fiduciary duty in connection with the merger agreement in which Highwoods offered to
exchange its shares for the J.C. Nichols shares held by J.C. Nichols shareholders. In addition, even
though Highwoods did not owe any actual duty to J.C. Nichols shareholders at the time and was
dismissed from Wright, the complaint still sufficiently alleged a security activity wrongful act. In
particular, the complaint alleged that defendants “were obligated to maximize the value to be paid
to JCN’s shareholders,” but failed to do so, resulting in an inadequate offer to purchase the
shares. JA 464. B. Having concluded that Wright was a company securities claim, we must now consider
whether and how that conclusion affects the application of the policy’s terms to Flake. We must give
legal effect to the language of the policy based on what a reasonable person should have understood
the language to mean. See Woods, 246 S.E.2d at 779. Even if Highwoods believed, when it negotiated
the 1998 policy, that the entity coverage would cover subsequently made claims related to the
merger, its belief was not necessarily a reasonable understanding of the language in the claims made
policy. The 1998 policy states that “[a] Claim is first made when it is commenced by the filing of a
complaint, notice of charges, formal investigative order or similar document, or by the return of an
indictment, against an Insured Person.” 1998 Policy § IV(A)(1). The related claims provision,
however, is a condition (narrowing the scope of coverage) which states that “[a]ll Related Claims
will be treated as a single Claim made when the earliest of such Related Claims was first made, or
when the earliest of such Related Claims is treated as having been made” as specified by the Policy.
Id. § IV(A)(4). In other words, although Flake is a company securities claim that was filed against
Highwoods during the policy period, if Flake and Wright are “related claims,” Flake will be treated
as a continuation of Wright. Because Wright was made prior to and outside the policy period, Flake
would also be considered to be made outside the policy period. The policy defines “related claims”
as: all Claims for Wrongful Acts based on, arising out of, directly or indirectly resulting from, in
consequence of, or in any way involving the same or related facts, circumstances, situations,
transactions or events or the same or related series of facts, circumstances, situations,
transactions or events. Id. § II(K). Highwoods argues that Wright and Flake are not related because
they alleged distinct wrongful acts that, although arising from the merger process, focused on
distinct aspects of the merger and sought different remedies. We must examine, then, the “facts,
circumstances, situations, transactions or events” that the two claims were based on, arose out of,
resulted from or involved. Once those facts are established, we must ask, as the district court did
when it examined four alternate bases for the application of the related claims provision, whether
such “facts, circumstances, situations, transactions or events” are (1) the same; (2) related; (3)
part of the same series; or (4) part of a related series. Insofar as Wright and Flake may be
construed as related claims, Highwoods urges us to conclude that the definition of “related claims”
is ambiguous and should, therefore, be construed in its favor, precluding summary judgment.
Executive Risk asserts that there is no ambiguity in the definition of “related claims,” and that
the provision applies to establish that Wright and Flake constitute a single claim. Whether a policy
is ambiguous is a question of law. McCuen v. American Cas. Co., 946 F.2d 1401, 1408 (8th Cir.1991).
Under North Carolina law, “ambiguous provisions will be construed against the insurer and in favor
of the insured.” State Capital Ins. Co. v. Nationwide Mut. Ins. Co., 318 N.C. 534, 350 S.E.2d 66, 68
(1986). Before this rule of construction applies, however, the court must find a phrase to be
ambiguous. An ambiguity exists only if “the language of the policy is fairly and reasonably
susceptible to either of the constructions for which the parties contend.” Wachovia, 172 S.E.2d at
522. Ambiguity is not automatically established, however, “simply because a plaintiff makes a claim
based on a construction of the insurance policy’s language contrary to that of the company’s
interpretation.” Christ Lutheran Church by & Through Matthews v. State Farm Fire & Cas. Co., 122
N.C.App. 614, 471 S.E.2d 124, 125 (1996). Context is often central to the way in which policy
language is applied: the same language may be found both ambiguous and unambiguous as applied to
different facts. We will apply the ordinary meaning of particular terms to the facts of the case to
determine if it is ambiguous as to those facts. See Kolb v. Paul Revere Life Ins. Co., 355 F.3d
1132, 1135-36 (8th Cir.2004) (finding the definition of “accidental bodily injury” ambiguous only in
terms of how it applied to the facts of the particular case and not as a general matter). We found
policy language ambiguous in McCuen, where the policy stated that “[cjlaims based on or arising out
of the same act, interrelated acts, or one or more series of similar acts” would be viewed as a
single loss and receive limited coverage. 946 F.2d at 1407. We found the words “similar” and
“interrelated” — when the only connection between the loans that created the losses at issue was
that they were made to the same borrower — created “substantial ambiguities” because they were “so
elastic, so lacking in concrete content.” Id. at 1407-08. Highwoods argues that McCuen’s reasoning
requires us to find ambiguity here because the terms “related” and “series” are equally elastic,
capable of being construed to connect almost any set of facts. We disagree.


