**gold_text:**
“[Sjtandard principles of statutory construction do not have their usual force in cases involving
Indian law.” Montana v. Blackfeet Tribe of Indians, 471 U.S. 759, 766, 105 S.Ct. 2399, 2403, 85
L.Ed.2d 753 (1985). The canons of construction applicable are “rooted in the unique trust
relationship between the United States and the Indians.” Oneida County v. Oneida Indian Nation, 470
U.S. 226, 247, 105 S.Ct. 1245, 1258, 84 L.Ed.2d 169 (1985). The Court must construe section
1631(b)(1) liberally in favor of the tribe and interpret ambiguous provisions to the tribe’s
benefit. See Hagen v. Utah, -U.S.-,-, 114 S.Ct. 958, 965, 127 L.Ed.2d 252 (1994); South Dakota v.
Bourland, — U.S. -, -, 113 S.Ct. 2309, 2316, 124 L.Ed.2d 606 (1993); Sisseton-Wahpeton Sioux Tribe
v. United States, 16 F.3d 261, 264 (8th Cir.1994).

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
Statutory Construction of 25 U.S.C. § 1631(b)(1)  In determining whether the IHS's action complies
with the statutory conditions imposed by 25 U.S.C. § 1631(b)(1), we must consider the principles of
statutory interpretation, particularly those applicable to Indian law. It is a well-established
canon that statutes concerning Indian tribes are to be construed liberally in favor of the Indians,
and ambiguous provisions are to be interpreted to their benefit (Reference case 411 U.S. 164, 174).
Furthermore, the unique trust relationship between the United States and Indian tribes mandates this
approach (Reference case 470 U.S. 226, 247).  Applying these principles, the discontinuation of
inpatient services without proper consultation with the tribe and failure to meet the contingencies
set forth in the PJD, such as ensuring the Wagner Community Memorial Hospital’s JCAHO accreditation
and Indian representation on its board, violates the statutory requirements. The Wagner facility's
services were reduced without satisfying the necessary procedural safeguards, contradicting the
intended statutory protection.  As noted in Reference case 471 U.S. 759, the consent of the affected
tribe is paramount and must be clearly manifested before any action adversely affecting the tribe's
interests is taken. The absence of individual notice and hearings further underscores the non-
compliance with § 1631(b)(1) and the related statutory and regulatory obligations.  Thus, given the
statutory and judicial precedents, the actions of the IHS in phasing out inpatient and emergency
services at the Wagner IHS Health Care Facility, without adhering to mandated consultative
procedures and tribal protections, cannot stand.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
 Under the principles of statutory construction applicable in Indian law, Canons of Construction,
the Court must construe liberally in favor of the Indians, with ambiguous provisions interpreted to
their benefit. In the case, the Court must consider the Oneida County v. Oneida Indian Nation, 470
U.S. 226, 247 (1985), and Oneida County v. Oneida Indian Nation, 471 U.S. 759 (1985), which
emphasized the importance of considering the unique trust relationship between the United States and
the Indians.  In this case, the Court finds that the statutory condition, 25 U.S.C. § 1631(b)(1), is
ambiguous and requires interpretation. The Court must also consider the Indian Health Care
Improvement Act of 1976, 25 U.S.C. §§ 1601-1682, which authorized the construction and renovation of
health care facilities, including the Wagner IHS Health Care Facility. The Court notes that the
statute required the Secretary to consult with Indian tribes and to assure that the facility, not
later than one year after its construction or renovation, shall meet the standards of the Joint
Committee on Accreditation of Hospitals.  Therefore, the Court holds that the IHS decision to
renovate the Wagner IHS Health Care Facility, resulting in the elimination of inpatient medical
services and threatened termination of 24-hour emergency room services, is subject to judicial
review. The Court relies on the principles of statutory construction and the unique trust
relationship between the United States and the Indians to construe the statute in favor of the
Indians.  In conclusion, the Court finds that the IHS decision to renovate the Wagner IHS Health
Care Facility is subject to judicial review under the APA, 5 U.S.C. § 702. The Court also finds that
the statutory condition, 25 U.S.C. § 1631(b)(1), is ambiguous and requires interpretation in favor
of the Indians. The Court relies on the principles of statutory construction and the unique trust
relationship between the United States and the Indians to construe the statute in favor of the
Indians.


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['471 U.S. 759', '470 U.S. 226', '16 F.3d 261']

***short_citations_0:*** 471 U.S. 759

appreciate, however, that the standard principles of statutory construction do not have their usual force in cases involving Indian law. As we said earlier this Term, “[t]he canons of construction applicable in Indian law are rooted in the unique trust relationship between the United States and the Indians.” Oneida County v. Oneida Indian Nation, 470 U. S. 226, 247 (1985). Two such canons are directly applicable in this case: first, the States may tax Indians only when Congress has manifested clearly its consent to such taxation, e. g., Bryan v. Itasca County, supra, at 393; second, statutes are to be construed liberally in favor of the Indians, with ambiguous provisions interpreted to their benefit, e. g., McClanahan v. Arizona State Tax Comm’n, 411 U. S. 164, 174 (1973); Choate v. Trapp, 224 U. S. 665, 675 (1912). When the 1924 and 1938 Acts are considered in light of these principles, it is clear that the 1924 Act does not authorize Montana to enforce its tax statutes with respect to leases issued under the 1938 Act. I — I <1 Nothing in either the text or legislative history of the 1938 Act suggests that Congress intended to permit States to tax tribal royalty income generated by leases issued pursuant to that Act. The statute contains no explicit consent to state taxation. Nor is there any indication that Congress intended to incorporate implicitly in the 1938 Act the taxing authority of the 1924 Act. Contrary to the State’s suggestion, under the applicable

***short_citations_1:*** 470 U.S. 226

unpersuaded by petitioners’ contention that the United States has ratified the unlawful 1795 conveyances. Petitioners base this argument on federally approved treaties in 1798 and 1802 in which the Oneidas ceded additional land to the State of New York. There is a question whether the 1802 treaty ever became effective. Assuming it did, neither the 1798 nor the 1802 treaty qualifies as federal ratification of the 1795 conveyance. The canons of construction applicable in Indian law are rooted in the unique trust relationship between the United States and the Indians. Thus, it is well established that treaties should be construed liberally in favor of the Indians, Choctaw Nation v. United States, 318 U. S. 423, 431-432 (1943); Choate v. Trapp, 224 U. S. 665, 675 (1912), with ambiguous provisions interpreted to their benefit, McClanahan v. Arizona State Tax Comm’n, 411 U. S. 164, 174 (1973); Carpenter v. Shaw, 280 U. S. 363, 367 (1930); Winters v. United States, 207 U. S. 564, 576-577 (1908). “Absent explicit statutory language,” Washington v. Washington State Commercial Passenger Fishing Vessel Assn., 443 U. S. 658, 690 (1979), this Court accordingly has refused to find that Congress has abrogated Indian treaty rights. Menominee Tribe v. United States, 391 U. S. 404 (1968). See generally F. Cohen, Handbook of Federal Indian Law 221-225 (1982 ed.) (hereinafter F. Cohen). The Court has applied similar canons of construction in nontreaty matters. Most importantly, the Court has held that congressional intent to extinguish Indian title must be “plain and

***short_citations_2:*** 16 F.3d 261

ambiguous statutory provision. Good Samaritan Hosp. v. Shalala, — U.S. -, -, 113 S.Ct. 2151, 2159, 124 L.Ed.2d 368 (1993). The Commission classified keno as class III gaming because keno is a house banking game. The Tribes contend that in light of the avowed purpose of the statute to increase Tribal economic development and Tribal self-sufficiency, this classification is arbitrary and capricious. The Tribes point out that it is a tenet of statutory construction that “statutes are to be construed liberally in favor of the Indians, with ambiguous provisions interpreted to their benefit.” South Dakota v. Bour land, — U.S. -, -, 113 S.Ct. 2309, 2316, 124 L.Ed.2d 606 (1993) (citations omitted). In making this argument, the Tribes ignore the dual purpose behind IGRA. IGRA has as its avowed purposes: (1) to provide a statutory basis for the operation of gaming by Indian tribes as a means of promoting tribal economic development, self-sufficiency, and strong tribal governments; (2) to provide a statutory basis for the regulation of gaming by an Indian tribe adequate to shield it from organized crime and other corrupting influences, to ensure that the Indian tribe is the primary beneficiary of the gaming operation, and to assure that gaming is conducted fairly and honestly by both the operator and players. 25 U.S.C. § 2702. In an attempt to effectuate the second purpose of the statute, and to shield Indian gaming from corruption, the Commission drew a bright line between house banking games and other types of gaming.

**prev_text:**
MEMORANDUM OPINION AND ORDER PIERSOL, District Judge. Plaintiffs challenge decisions of the Indian
Health Service (IHS) to discontinue inpatient and emergency medical services for members of the
Yankton Sioux Tribe at the Wagner IHS Health Care Facility. Plaintiffs seek judicial review of these
agency decisions under the Administrative Procedures Act (APA), 5 U.S.C. § 702. They also assert
Fifth Amendment due process and equal protection claims. On April 1, the Court issued a temporary
restraining order enjoining Defendants from reducing 24-hour emergency room service and terminating
the employment of sixteen medical staff employees at the Wagner IHS Health Care Facility. The Court
expedited this matter on its calendar and held a bench trial on Thursday and Friday, April 28 & 29,
1994. The Court received and considered the brief amici curiae of the Rosebud Sioux Tribe and the
Santee Sioux Tribe of Nebraska. At the close of the evidence and after hearing arguments of counsel,
the Court ruled from the bench and will now more fully explain its oral rulings. Findings of Fact
The Snyder Act of 1921, 25 U.S.C. § 13, and the Indian Health Care Improvement Act of 1976, 25
U.S.C. §§ 1601-1682, comprise the legislative authority for health care programs and facilities that
are administered by the Indian Health Service (IHS), an agency of the Public Health Service within
the Department of Health and Human Services. The Wagner IHS Hospital was built in 1937 and by 1981
was listed as number four on the IHS Health Facilities Construction Priority List. In 1982, the
General Accounting Office (GAO) issued a report suggesting that IHS should re-evaluate inpatient
services at nine locations. As a result of the report, IHS developed a guideline limiting
replacement inpatient facilities to those expected to have an average daily patient load (ADPL) of
fifteen. IHS did not officially adopt this guideline until 1988 or 1989. At the Wagner IHS facility,
however, ADPL was around six, and thus, IHS determined in 1983 that the projected workload did not
justify building a replacement facility providing inpatient services. In fiscal year 1984, Congress
appropriated, pursuant to the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, 25 U.S.C. §§ 1601-1682, a lump-sum
amount of more than $53 million for IHS construction and renovation projects. (Gov’t, ex. B at 4.)
According to the testimony, this figure included $360,000 for planning and design of an ambulatory
care facility at Wagner, which would provide outpatient and preventative health services. Witnesses
testified, and defendants did not dispute, that IHS is obligated to consult with Indian tribes
before constructing or renovating health care facilities. During the fiscal year 1985 hearing before
the Subcommittee of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, Dr. Everett R.
Rhoades, Assistant Surgeon General, Director, Indian Health Service, reported that the tribe was not
convinced of the value of an outpatient facility and that negotiations toward reaching consensus
were ongoing. (Gov’t, ex. A, at 2-3.) Upon questioning by the Chairman of the Subcommittee, Mr.
Sidney R. Yates, Dr. Rhoades acknowledged that the tribe wanted a hospital, but that IHS believed
inpatient care could be purchased on contract at Wagner Community Memorial Hospital. In July 1986,
the Wagner Health Care Facility Program Justification Document (PJD) was approved by Dr. Rhoades;
John H. Kelso, Acting Administrator, Health Resources and Services Administration; and Robert E.
Windom, M.D., Assistant Secretary for Health. (PL ex. 1.) It authorized construction of a new
ambulatory care facili ty, and provided that inpatient services would be phased out by January 1,
1990, because of the availability of alternative inpatient facilities at the nearby Wagner Community
Memorial Hospital and at other regional hospitals, including Sacred Heart Hospital in Yankton, South
Dakota. Dr. Richard Olson, Director of Patient Care Professional Affairs in the Office of Health
Programs at IHS headquarters, testified that 24-hour emergency room services were to be phased out
at the Wagner IHS facility, along with the inpatient services. The PJD also provided for certain
contingencies: The IHS Aberdeen Area Office will assure during contract negotiations for inpatient
care that the contracting hospital is JCA-HO [Joint Commission on Accreditation of Health Care
Organizations] accredited and will provide care at least comparable to IHS facilities; grants IHS
medical personnel staff privileges; will allow patient care surveillance; and that Indians be
appointed to the Board of Directors. (PL ex. 1 at 4.) Dr. Terry Sloan, former Aberdeen Area Director
from November 1984 to March 1992, testified that preparation of a PJD is a complicated process that
involves direct negotiation with the tribe. He testified that, by signing the PJD, high-level
officials approved of the plan, including the PJD’s provision that inpatient services at the Wagner
IHS facility would be phased out by January 1, 1990. He further testified it was his understanding
that the Wagner IHS inpatient facility could not be closed until the above-quoted contingencies
included in the PJD were met. Dr. Olson testified, however, that the contingencies were required to
be met during the process of contracting for inpatient services, not before closing the Wagner IHS
inpatient facility. In any event, witnesses testified, and the Court finds, that the contingencies
have not been met to date. Officials of the Wagner Community Memorial Hospital have not signed a
contract to provide inpatient services for tribal patients, although that hospital is providing
contract care for tribal members. Inpatient services at the Wagner IHS facility ended on November
16, 1992. Dr. Sloan testified that the Wagner Community Memorial Hospital is not JCAHO accredited,
while the Wagner IHS facility was among the top ten hospitals accredited by JCAHO. No Indians have
been appointed to the Wagner Community Memorial Hospital Board of Directors, and patient care
surveillance is not permitted. Although Wagner Community Memorial Hospital granted IHS physicians
staff privileges, the IHS physicians resigned those privileges in protest of Wagner Community’s
policy that it will not treat tribal members who are suffering from alcohol-related conditions. Vern
Donnell, Service Unit Director, testified that forty percent of patients treated by Wagner IHS have
a history of alcoholism. The evidence indicates that in 1983 the IHS Aberdeen Area Office notified
Mr. Leonard Hare, Jr., Chairman of the Health Board of the Yankton Sioux Tribe, that IHS intended to
build an ambulatory care facility and phase out the existing inpatient services at the Wagner IHS
hospital. Dr. Sloan, Dr. Olson, and Vern Donnell all testified that IHS administrators participated
in meetings with officials of the tribe and the Wagner Community Memorial Hospital regarding
discontinuation of inpatient services at the Wagner IHS facility. Dr. Sloan testified, however, that
he did not give the tribe official notice, nor did he receive an order from his superiors to give
the tribe official notice, of closure of the Wagner IHS in-patient facility. He testified that the
tribe was aware closure might happen and that the tribe had expressed an interest in exercising
self-determination to operate the inpatient facility if IHS planned to close it. Jolene Arrow,
Secretary of the Tribal Council, testified that the tribe did not receive notice of the
discontinuance of inpatient services and that, based upon information from Vern Donnell, Service
Unit Director, the tribe thought the closure was temporary because of heating and ventilation
concerns. Darlene Williamson testified that she received notice the same day the inpatient facility
closed. The parties stipulated at trial that IHS did not provide Yankton Sioux tribal members with
individual notice that inpatient services and 24-hour emergency room services would be discontinued
at the Wagner IHS facility. The parties also stipulated that IHS did not provide Yankton Sioux
tribal members with individual hearings relating to the discontinuance of these services. In
September 1988, for fiscal year 1989, Congress appropriated, again pursuant to the Indian Health
Care Improvement Act, 25 U.S.C. §§ 1601-1682, over $61 million dollars for IHS construction
projects, $4,227,000 of which was earmarked for the Wagner IHS Health Care Facility. (Gov’t, exs.
D-F.) Construction of the new portion of the facility began in August 1991. Inpatient services
ceased as of November 16, 1992, and the facility has operated since that date as an ambulatory care
and emergency facility. The facility as it now exists cannot support inpatient services. (Gov’t, ex.
I.) Dr. Olson testified that the IHS administers 49 hospitals, 150 health centers, and 350 other
part-time or intermittent health centers, but IHS does not provide each tribe with similar services.
He testified that the level of services provided depends upon workload, including a consideration of
ADPL, the location and accessibility of alternative medical services, and the ability to recruit and
retain quality professionals. Effective November 23,1988, Congress enacted Public Law 100-713,
Indian Health Care Amendments of 1988, which substantially altered and added to the provisions of 25
U.S.C. § 1631. In addition to its previous direction to consult with Indian tribes regarding planned
construction or renovation of health care facilities, Congress added the following: (b) Closure;
report on proposed closure (1) Notwithstanding any provision of law other than this subsection, no
Service hospital or outpatient health care facility of the Service, or any portion of such a
hospital or facility, may be closed if the Secretary has not submitted to the Congress at least 1
year prior to the date such hospital or facility (or portion thereof) is proposed to be closed an
evaluation of the impact of such proposed closure which specifies, in addition to other
considerations— (A) the accessibility of alternative health care resources for the population served
by such hospital or facility; (B) the cost effectiveness of such closure; (C) the quality of health
care to be provided to the population served by such hospital or facility after such closure; (D)
the availability of contract health care funds to maintain existing levels of service; (E) the views
of the Indian tribes served by such hospital or facility concerning such closure. (2) Paragraph (1)
shall not apply to any temporary closure of a facility or of any portion of a facility if such
closure is necessary for medical, environmental, or safety reasons. Dr. Olson testified that,
because he thought amended section 1631(b)(1) applied to the Wagner IHS facility, he directed Reba
Walker, Aberdeen Area Associate Director since March 1992, to prepare a Draft Impact Study pursuant
to the statute. Ms. Walker testified that it was usual practice to prepare for any eventuality that
might occur, and she directed a member of her staff, Sandy Coulter, to prepare the Draft Impact
Study. Ms. Coulter testified that the draft concluded it would be more cost-effective to provide
inpatient services directly to tribal members, assuming that the tribe built the facility, rather
than to obtain such services through contract care. The draft study did not include the costs of new
inpatient construction or staffing. According to Ms. Walker, the draft never became a finalized,
signed document adopted by the agency. Both she and Dr. Olson testified that the efforts to produce
the document ended when, in September 1993, then Director of the Indian Health Service, Michael
Lincoln, stated in a letter to Plaintiffs’ counsel that section 1631(b)(1) does not apply to the
Wagner IHS facility because that facility’s PJD became final in 1986, before passage of the
statutory amendment. Mr. Jerome DeWolf, a staff member of the Aberdeen Area Office for four years,
testified that, in the summer of 1991, he received a directive from IHS Headquarters to analyze the
cost-effectiveness of six hospitals in the Aberdeen Area, using fiscal year 1990 data. He testified
that he was directed to replicate a 1982 New Mexico study, but the methodology used in the Aberdeen
study ultimately differed because pass-through costs were added. The study concluded that it would
be more cost-effective to operate all six hospitals rather than to contract for service. He also
testified that the ADPL policy had its origins in the early 1980’s, but the policy was not given
full effect until 1988-89. There was concern as to how the low-ADPL policy would affect the Aberdeen
area; testimony reveals that low-ADPL hospitals at Rosebud and at Winnebago, Nebraska, were not
closed, while the Wagner inpatient facility was closed. Dr. Olson testified, however, that the
Rosebud facility was not closed because of its remote location as it lies 170 miles from Pierre or
Rapid City. Although IHS officials planned to phase out 24-hour emergency room services along with
inpatient services, evidence reveals that the Wagner IHS Health Care Facility has continued to
provide emergency room services as it had for many years. Darlene Williamson testified that the loss
of inpatient services resulted in a corresponding loss of Medicare and Medicaid funding so that the
Wagner facility is currently running at a minimum $400,000 deficit. She testified that, as a result
of this deficit, IHS officials planned to eliminate 24-hour emergency room services and terminate
the positions of sixteen medical, staff personnel. Additionally, she testified that, on a monthly
average, the IHS facility handles 500 emergency room visits, while the Wagner Community Memorial
Hospital handles two emergency room visits, and thus, the local hospital cannot accommodate tribal
needs. She also testified that the loss of health services at the Wagner IHS facility has caused
hardship on tribal members who lack transportation and exacerbates problems rooted in cultural
differences. Mr. Darryl Drapeau, Yankton Sioux Tribal Chairman, testified that he has received
reports by tribal members of racial mistreatment at the Wagner Community Memorial Hospital, but he
did not discuss these reports with hospital officials or report them to the State Medical Board. Mr.
Vern Donnell testified, however, that IHS pays for Category I (life threatening) emergency room care
provided to tribal members at Wagner Community Memorial Hospital and other regional hospitals.
Judicial Review The APA provides that “[a] person suffering legal wrong because of agency action, or
adversely affected or aggrieved by agency action within the meaning of a relevant statute, is
entitled to judicial review thereof.” 5 U.S.C. § 702. The Supreme Court has read the APA as
embodying a “basic presumption of judicial review.” Abbott Laboratories v. Gardner, 387 U.S. 136,
140, 87 S.Ct. 1507, 1511, 18 L.Ed.2d 681 (1967). However, the Supreme Court has again recently made
clear that, under 5 U.S.C. § 701(a)(2), agency action is not subject to judicial review “ ‘to the
extent that’ ” such action “ ‘is committed to agency discretion by law.’ ” Lincoln v. Vigil, — U.S.
-, -, -, 113 S.Ct. 2024, 2027, 2030, 124 L.Ed.2d 101 (1993). Thus, the Court must determine whether
the decisions of the IHS at issue here are judicially reviewable. In Lincoln, the Supreme Court held
that the decision by the IHS to discontinue the Indian Children’s Program for handicapped children
in the Southwest was not subject to judicial review under the APA because the decision was committed
to agency discretion by law. Id. at-, 113 S.Ct. at 2027. Although the IHS repeatedly apprised
Congress of the continuing operation of the program, IHS supported the program with funds from its
annual lump-sum appropriation; Congress never expressly appropriated funds for the program. Id. at--
-, 113 S.Ct. at 2028-29. The Supreme Court reasoned that the allocation of funds from a lump-sum
appropriation is an “administrative decision traditionally regarded as committed to agency
discretion,” id. at-, 113 S.Ct. at 2031, and so long as the agency allocates funds from a lump-sum
appropriation to meet permissible statutory objectives, the APA gives the courts “no leave to
intrude.” Id. at -, 113 S.Ct. at 2032. Where Congress appropriates lump-sum amounts without
restricting statutorily what can be done with the funds, a clear inference arises that Congress does
not intend to impose legally binding restrictions. Id. at-, 113 S.Ct. at 2031. The Court finds that
Lincoln is distinguishable from the case at bar. Contrary to Lincoln, Congress specifically
appropriated funds for construction and renovation of the Wagner IHS Health Care Facility. More
importantly, Congress placed statutory conditions upon the expenditure of the construction funds by
IHS. The Indian Health Care Improvement Act of 1976 included a provision codified at 25 U.S.C. §
1631, which provided: (c) Consultation with Indian tribes; standards Prior to the expenditure of, or
the making of any firm commitment to expend, any funds authorized in subsection (a) of this section,
the Secretary, acting through the Service shall— (1) consult with any Indian tribe to be
significantly affected by any such expenditure for the purpose of determining and, wherever
practicable, honoring tribal preferences concerning the size, location, type, and other
characteristics of any facility on which such expenditure is to be made; and (2) be assured that,
wherever practicable, such facility, not later than one year after its construction or renovation,
shall meet the standards of the Joint Committee on Accreditation of Hospitals. Because Congress
imposed these statutory conditions on the expenditure of funds, the Court concludes that Lincoln v.
Vigil is distinguishable. The Court finds that it may judicially review the IHS decision to renovate
the Wagner IHS Health Care Facility, which resulted in the elimination of inpatient medical services
and the threatened termination of 24-hour emergency room services and a reduction in medical staff.
See Mount Evans Co. v. Madigan, 14 F.3d 1444, 1449 (10th Cir.1994) (distinguishing Lincoln v. Vigil
on the ground that Congress statutorily limited the discretion of the Forest Service in expending
funds). , Statutory Construction of 25 U.S.C. § 1631(b)(1)


