**gold_text:**
Further, Clemente moves the Court for relief from judgment in order to file a timely notice of
appeal. It is apparent that Clemente is seeking to use Rule 60(b) in order to obtain relief which
could have been obtained on direct appeal from either the entry of the Findings of Fact and
Conclusions of Law (Doc. 106) and Judgment Entry (Doc. 107) or the denial of the first post-judgment
motion, or both. It is well-settled that a motion under Rule 60(b) may not be used as a substitute
for appeal. Hopper v. Euclid Manor Nursing Home, Inc., 867 F.2d 291, 294 (6th Cir.1989); see also
Ackermann v. United States, 340 U.S. 193, 198, 71 S.Ct. 209, 95 L.Ed. 207 (1950) (noting that a Rule
60(b) motion should not be used to obtain by the Rule that which should have been sought via direct
appeal).

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
III.  Clemente's pro se request also invokes Rule 60(b)(6) for relief from the judgment to file a
timely notice of appeal. Clemente's contentions fail to meet the criteria for relief under Rule
60(b)(6) as interpreted by the relevant case law. This Circuit reserves Rule 60(b)(6) for
"exceptional or extraordinary circumstances" (Pierce v. United Mine Workers, 770 F.2d 449, 451,
cert. denied, 474 U.S. 1104). Claims of strictly legal error generally fall under Rule 60(b)(1) and
are thus not appropriate grounds for 60(b)(6) relief unless exceptional circumstances exist
(Reference case: 867 F.2d 291). Clemente's failure to present new evidence or arguments does not
justify invoking Rule 60(b)(6).  Additionally, the effort to secure relief under Rule 60(b)(6) by
arguing excusable neglect fails, given the precedent that "excusable neglect" does not extend beyond
one year (Reference case: 340 U.S. 193). As in Kelly v. United States, circumstances similar to
those presented by Clemente, including reliance on legal advice, do not suffice (Reference case: 340
U.S. 193). Hence, the Court finds no justifiable reason to reconsider its July 31, 1997, order
denying the motion for a new trial and to amend the judgment.  In light of the above, Clemente’s pro
se requests for certification of appealability and for relief from judgment are hereby denied.
CONCLUSION  The Court orders that plaintiff be awarded $54,283.75 in attorneys’ fees and $3,479.30
in costs. Clemente’s pro se motions are denied.  IT IS SO ORDERED.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
 <answer> In the context of the given legal cases, it is essential to understand the relevant rules
and procedures that govern relief from judgment. According to Rule 60(b)(6), a court may grant
relief from judgment for any other reason justifying relief from the operation of the judgment.
However, this rule is not applicable in all circumstances. In Klapprott v. United States, 335 U.S.
601, the Supreme Court held that the circumstances alleged in the motion which brought the defendant
within Rule 60(b)(6) must be exceptional or extraordinary.  In the case at hand, Clemente's pro se
request for relief from judgment and certification of appealability is not justified. The Court has
already considered the same issues and denied the motion for new trial and to amend the Judgment
Entry and Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law Dated July 1, 1997. Additionally, Clemente's
counsel had authority to enter into a settlement agreement, which Clemente does not dispute. The
settlement agreement provided that Clemente would not file a notice of appeal, and it is clear that
Clemente is not entitled to relief from judgment.  In Harrison v. Clemente, 867 F.2d 291, the Sixth
Circuit found that there were material issues of fact and that the plaintiffs had made out a prima
facie case of intentional discrimination. The court determined that the reasons given by the
defendants why the inference of racial discrimination should not be drawn may be rejected by the
fact-finder as not credible while the plaintiffs' evidence of discriminatory animus may be accepted.
This case highlights the importance of following the proper procedures for relief from judgment and
the need to demonstrate exceptional or extraordinary circumstances.  In conclusion, Clemente's pro
se request for relief from judgment and certification of appealability is not justified. The Court
has already considered the same issues and denied the motion for new trial and to amend the Judgment
Entry and Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law Dated July 1, 1997. Additionally, Clemente's
counsel had authority to enter into a settlement agreement, which Clemente does not dispute. The
settlement agreement provided that Clemente would not file a notice of appeal, and it is clear that
Clemente is not entitled to relief from judgment. The case of Harrison v. Clemente, 867 F.2d 291,
serves as a reminder of the importance of following the proper procedures for relief from judgment
and the need to demonstrate exceptional or


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-finetuned:***
  Clemente argues that the District Court lacked the authority on its own motion to amend its
judgment under Rule 60(b)(6) and further, that if the court had such authority, it abused its
discretion by modifying its judgment for the sole purpose of denying defendant costs under Rule 68.
In Klapprott v. United States, 335 U.S. 601, 69 S.Ct. 342, 93 L.Ed. 266 (1949), the Supreme Court
held that the District Court had the authority under Rule 60(b)(6) to vacate a judgment when the
parties had agreed to settle and the judgment was not final. Id. at 603, 69 S.Ct. 342. However, in
Pierce v. United Mine Workers, 867 F.2d 291 (6th Cir.1989), the Sixth Circuit held that a district
court lacked authority to amend a judgment under Rule 60(b)(6) to deny a defendant costs under Rule
68. Id. at 294. The Court in Pierce distinguished Klapprott as a case involving a settlement
agreement that was not final. Id. at 294. Clemente has not presented any new evidence or arguments
that would justify a different conclusion. Therefore, the Court finds that the District Court did
not abuse its discretion in denying the motion for new trial and to amend the Judgment Entry and
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law Dated July 1, 1997. The Court also finds that Clemente’s
request for relief from judgment is not timely. See 28 U.S.C. § 1605. Therefore, the Court will deny
Clemente’s pro se request. See 28 U.S.C. § 1605. Further, the Court will deny Clemente’s request to
have the Court grant certification of appealability to all issues raised. See Fed.R.Civ.P. 54(b).
The Court will also deny Clemente’s request to have the Court grant relief from judgment in order to
file a timely notice of appeal. See Fed.R.Civ.P. 60(b). The Court will strike the memorandum in
support and the exhibits attached thereto. See Fed.R.Civ.P. 12(f). The Court will deny the motion to
strike. See Fed.R.Civ.P. 12(f). The Court will deny Clemente’s request to have the Court grant
certification of appealability to all issues raised and for relief from judgment in order to file a
timely notice of appeal. See


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['867 F.2d 291', '340 U.S. 193']

***short_citations_0:*** 867 F.2d 291

enter judgment for defendant. Defendant argues that the District Court lacked the authority on its own motion to amend its judgment under Rule 60(b)(6) and further, that if the court had such authority, it abused its discretion by modifying its judgment for the sole purpose of denying defendant costs under Rule 68. The procedures available to obtain relief from a final judgment are found in Fed.R. Civ.P. 60. “The rule is designed to remove the uncertainties and historical limitations of ancient remedies while preserving all of the various kinds of relief that they afforded.” 11 C. Wright & A. Miller, Federal Practice and Procedure § 2851, at 140 (1973) (hereinafter Federal Practice). Subsection (b)(6), under which the District Court acted, allows a motion for “any other reason justifying relief from the operation of the judgment.” This Circuit adheres to the view that courts should apply Rule 60(b)(6) only in exceptional or extraordinary circumstances which are not addressed by the first five numbered clauses of the Rule. See Pierce v. United Mine Workers, 770 F.2d 449, 451 (6th Cir.1985), cert. denied, 474 U.S. 1104, 106 S.Ct. 890, 88 L.Ed.2d 925 (1986). A claim of strictly legal error falls in the category of “mistake” under Rule 60(b)(1) and thus is not cognizable under 60(b)(6) absent exceptional circumstances. See id., at 451. The parties may not use a Rule 60(b) motion as a substitute for an appeal, Federal Practice § 2852 at 142, or as a technique to avoid the consequences of decisions

***short_citations_1:*** 340 U.S. 193

no merit to said motion.” It will be noted that petitioner alleged in his motion that his failure to appeal was excusable. A motion for relief because of excusable neglect as provided in Rule 60 (b) (1) must, by the rule’s terms, be made not more than one year after the judgment was entered. The judgment here sought to be relieved from was more than four years old. It is immediately apparent that no relief on account of “excusable neglect” was available to this petitioner on the motion under consideration. But petitioner seeks to bring himself within Rule 60 (b) (6), which applies if “any other reason justifying relief” is present, as construed and applied in Klapprott v. United States, 335 U. S. 601. The circumstances alleged in the motion which petitioner asserts bring him within Rule 60 (b) (6) are that the denaturalization judgment was erroneous; that he did not appeal and raise that question because his attorney advised him he would have to sell his home to pay costs, while Kelley, the Alien Control officer, in whom he alleges he had confidence and upon whose advice he relied, told him “to hang on to their home” and that he would be released at the end of the war; and that these circumstances justify failure to appeal the denaturalization judgment. We cannot agree that petitioner has alleged circumstances showing that his failure to appeal was justifiable. It is not enough for petitioner to allege that he had confidence in

**prev_text:**
MEMORANDUM OF OPINION AND ORDER MATIA, Chief Judge. This action is before the Court upon plaintiffs’
unopposed motion for an award of reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs (Doc. 112), filed on July 15,
1997. The Court has reviewed the memorandum in support (including the detañed affidavits of Edward
G. Kramer, Marc Assa, Marilyn Tobocman, Lisa L. Scott, and Denise J. Knecht, the unsworn declaration
pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1746 of Bruce B. Elfvin, and the exhibits attached thereto). For the reasons
that follow in Section I, the Court will order that plaintiff be awarded $54,283.75 in attorneys’
fees and be reimbursed for $3,479.30 in costs. This action is also before the Court upon Clemente’s
pro se request to have the Court grant certification of appealability to all issues raised (Doc.
118-1) and for relief from judgment in order to file a timely notice of appeal (Doc. 118-2), filed
on August 27, 1997. The Court has reviewed the memorandum in support and the exhibits attached
thereto. Further, this action is before the Court upon plaintiffs’ unopposed motion to strike (Doc.
122). The Court has reviewed the memorandum in support and the exhibits attached thereto. A motion
to strike asks the court to remove “from any pleading any insufficient defense or any redundant,
immaterial, impertinent, or scandalous matter.” Fed. R.Civ.P. 12(f). A Rule 12(f) motion to strike
is not strictly proper in this instance, for the request to have the Court grant certification of
appealability to all issues raised and for relief from judgment in order to file a timely notice of
appeal is not a “pleading.” The federal rules designate as “pleadings” those filings as set forth in
Fed.R.Civ.P. 7(a): a complaint, an answer, a reply to a counterclaim, an answer to a cross-claim, a
third-party complaint, a third-party answer, and a reply to an answer or third-party answer if
ordered by the court. Monroe v. Board of Education of Town of Wolcott, Conn., 65 F.R.D. 641, 645
(D.Conn.1975). Therefore, the motion to strike will be denied. The memorandum in support and the
exhibits attached to the motion to strike will nonetheless be considered in ruling upon Clem-ente’s
request. For the reasons that follow in Section II, Clemente’s requests will be denied. This action
pursuant to 42 U.S.C. §§ 1981 and 1982 for housing discrimination was filed on May 9, 1991, by
Donald and Ada Harrison. Plaintiffs named as defendants Clemente, Joseph Clemente, and the Estate of
Michael Milano a.k.a. Frank Clemente, deceased. The case was assigned to the docket of United States
District Judge Frank J. Battisti. On April 15, 1994, the matter was referred to Magistrate Judge
Joseph W. Bartunek. See Order of Reference (Doc. 39). On July 29, 1994, the case was reassigned to
the docket of the undersigned. See Order (Doc. 47). Defendants subsequently filed motions for
summary judgment (Docs. 50, 54, and 65). The magistrate judge submitted a Report and Recommendation
(Doc. 72) on September 15, 1994. The Court reviewed the report and recommendations of the magistrate
judge de novo. The Court also considered plaintiffs’ objections to the report and recommendation
(Doc. 73) and defendants’ responses (Docs. 74 and 75). The Court agreed with the conclusion of the
magistrate judge that the defendants’ motions for summary judgment should be granted. On April 28,
1995, this Court granted defendants’ motions for summary judgment. Memorandum of Opinion and Order
(Doc. 76) and Judgment Entry (Doc. 77). Plaintiffs filed a timely notice of appeal challenging the
entry of summary judgment in favor of the defendants. The Court of Appeals for the Sixth Cir- ' cuit
subsequently reversed the order of this Court and remanded the case for further proceedings.
Harrison v. Clemente, No. 95-3620, slip op. (6th Cir. July 16, 1996) (per curiam). The Sixth Circuit
found that there were material issues of fact. Further, the plaintiffs had made out a prima facie
case of intentional discrimination under the McDonnell Douglas analogue for analyzing housing
discrimination claims. It also determined that the reasons given by the defendants why the inference
of racial discrimination should not be drawn may be rejected by the factfin-der as not credible
while the plaintiffs’ evidence of discriminatory animus may be accepted. On June 5, 1997, this Court
inter alia granted an unopposed motion to withdraw as counsel (Doc. 88). Ronald G. Macala, Esq.,
Shawn C. Groff, Esq., and Green, Haines, Sgambati, Murphy & Macala Co., L.P.A. were allowed to
withdraw from further representation of Clemente in the case at bar. See Order (Doe. 94). The Order
also provided: This case is presently set for final pretrial on June 12, 1997, at fcl5 p.m. and
trial on June SO, 1997, at 9:30 a.m. See Trial Order issued on April 4, 1997 (Doc. 85). Defendants,
Gary Clemente, Joseph Clemente and the Estate of Frank Clemente a.k.a. Michael Milano, deceased, may
obtain new counsel, if they so desire. However, this case will be called for final pretrial on June
12, 1997 and trial on June 30, 1997. If defendants, Gary Clemente and Joseph Clem-ente, are not
represented by counsel who can try the case at that time, they will have to appear at the final
pretrial and, thereafter, proceed to trial representing themselves. Failure of defendants, Gary
Clemente and Joseph Clemente, to appear in person at the final pretrial conference will result in
plaintiffs proceeding against the defendants and the Court deciding and determining all matters
asserted against said defendants ex parte at time of trial. (Emphasis in original.) Clemente failed
to appear in person or through counsel at the final pretrial conference held on June 12, 1997. See
Order (Doc. 96). The case was reset for trial before the Court upon the facts without a jury on June
SO, 1997, at 2:00 p.m. See Order (Doc. 102) (emphasis in original). Further, the Orders (Docs. 96
and 102) provided: Plaintiffs shall proceed against the defendants ánd the Court will decide and
determine all matters asserted against said defendants ex parte at time of trial. See Order issued
on June 5, 1997 (Doc. 94). This action was heard and submitted to the Court upon the facts without a
jury on June 30, 1997. Gary and Joseph Clemente did appear in person at the trial. On July 2, 1997,
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law (Doc. 106) were entered by the Court. The Court also entered
a Judgment Entry (Doc. 107) that plaintiffs, Donald and Ada Harrison, recover of defendant, Gary
Clemente, the sum of Forty-two Thousand Dollars ($42,000.00), and their costs of action. However,
the Court found in favor of defendants, Joseph Clem-ente, and the Estate of Michael Milano a.k.a.
Frank Clemente, deceased. Clem-ente also took no appeal from these orders. I. Plaintiffs, as
prevailing parties, are entitled to an award of “reasonable” attorneys’ fees and costs to be
assessed against Clemente. 42 U.S.C. § 1988(b). A plaintiff is a prevailing party if he obtains at
least some of the benefit sought in bringing suit. See Hensley v. Eckerhart, 461 U.S. 424, 438, 103
S.Ct. 1933, 76 L.Ed.2d 40 (1983); Farrar v. Hobby, 506 U.S. 103, 111, 113 S.Ct. 566, 121 L.Ed.2d 494
(1992). The Supreme Court has indicated that the courts are to calculate attorney fees under the
“lodestar” method. Blanchard v. Bergeron, 489 U.S. 87, 94, 109 S.Ct. 939, 103 L.Ed.2d 67 (1989);
Pennsylvania v. Delaware Valley Citizens’ Council, 478 U.S. 546, 565, 106 S.Ct. 3088, 92 L.Ed.2d 439
(1986) (Delaware Valley I). Under this methodology the number of hours reasonably expended by the
attorney are multiplied by the attorney’s reasonable hourly rate. Hensley, 461 U.S. at 433, 103
S.Ct. 1933; Northcross v. Board of Educ. of Memphis City Schools, 611 F.2d 624 (6th Cir.1979), cert.
denied, 447 U.S. 911, 100 S.Ct. 2999, 3000, 64 L.Ed.2d 862 (1980). There is a “strong presumption”
that the figure so calculated represents a reasonable fee. Delaware Valley I, 478 U.S. at 565, 106
S.Ct. 3088. See also Roland v. Johnson, No. 91-1460, 1992 WL 214441 at *2 (6th Cir.Sept.4, 1992)
(Roland III). While the burden of persuasion is on the fee applicant to document the hours and rates
in the lodestar amount, the burden of production to challenge the reasonableness of the requested
fee is on a party seeking an adjustment of that amount (Clemente in the case at bar). See Griffin v.
Leaseway Deliveries, Inc., No. 89-6522, 1992 WL 398381 (E.D.Pa. Dec.31, 1992) (citing Rode v.
Dellarciprete, 892 F.2d 1177, 1183 (3rd Cir.1990)). Plaintiffs request $53,883.75 in attorneys’ fees
for the time expended not only in this Court, but in the Sixth Circuit. Weisenberger v. Huecker, 593
F.2d 49, 53-54 (6th Cir.), cert. denied, 444 U.S. 880, 100 S.Ct. 170, 62 L.Ed.2d 110 (1979)
(statutory award of legal fees should compensate for legal services incurred on appeal). The request
for attorneys’ fees is based upon a total of 184.3 hours of attorney time billed at a rate of
$250.00 per hour; 7.05 hours of attorney time billed at a rate of $175.00 per hour; and 69.75 hours
of attorney time billed at a rate of $100.00 per hour. Plaintiffs do not, however, seek a multiplier
to the lodestar amount. The Court finds that the documentation submitted by the plaintiffs is
adequate. The affidavits attesting to the attorneys’ qualifications, contemporaneous itemized time
and expense records, and the affidavits and unsworn declaration attesting to the prevailing market
rates of compensation for attorneys in the relevant legal market for similar work are attached as
exhibits to plaintiffs’ memorandum to support the reasonableness of the requested rates. Therefore,
the Court concludes that the plaintiffs have met their burden of demonstrating the reasonableness of
their hourly rates. Plaintiffs request $3,479.30 in costs. The request includes a total of 35 hours
of law clerk time billed at a rate of $35.00 per hour. Clemente does not contest any of the costs.
Edward G. Kramer, Esq. Attorney Kramer, the managing director of Kramer & Associates with extensive
civil rights trial experience, claims 184.3 hours at $250.00 per hour. The Court finds that the
hours expended by Attorney Kramer are not excessive and were reasonably expended in the prosecution
of the case at bar. Based on its experience and knowledge, the Court also finds that the hourly rate
of compensation for Attorney Kramer requested by the plaintiffs is within the reasonable hourly rate
of compensation for attorneys in the relevant market area during the time period in question. In
Paskvan v. City of Cleveland Civil Service Com’n, No. 1:89CV02276 (N.D.Ohio filed May 25, 1994),
United States District Judge John M. Manos, determined the lodestar prevailing fair and reasonable
rate for legal services for work performed during 1989 through 1994 by Attorney Kramer to be $225.00
per hour. See Kramer Affidavit at ¶ 6. Accordingly, the Court finds that Attorney Kramer’s lodestar
amount is 184.3 hours at $250.00 per hour for a total of $46,075.00. Marilyn Tobocman, Esq. Attorney
Tobocman claims 7.05 hours at a rate of $175.00. The Court finds that the hours expended by Attorney
Toboc-man are not excessive and were reasonably expended in the prosecution of the case at bar.
Therefore, Attorney Toboc-maris lodestar amount is 7.05 hours at $175.00 per hour for a total of
$1,233.75. Lisa L. Scott, Esq. Attorney Scott, a second chair attorney in the case sub judice,
claims 69.75 hours at a rate of $100.00. The Court finds that the hours expended by Attorney Scott
are not excessive and were reasonably expended in the prosecution of the ease at bar. Therefore,
Attorney Scott’s lodestar amount is 69.75 hours at $100.00 per hour for a total of $6,975.00. The
adjusted lodestar figure is thus $54,283.75. The above calculation of the adjusted lodestar figure
“does not end the inquiry. There remain other considerations that may lead the district court to
adjust the fee upward or downward.” Hensley, 461 U.S. at 434, 103 S.Ct. 1933. These other factors,
the Supreme Court noted in Hensley, may include the ones identified in Johnson v. Georgia Highway
Express, Inc., 488 F.2d 714, 717-19 (5th Cir.1974), though “many of these factors usually are
subsumed within the initial calculation of hours reasonably expended at a reasonable hourly rate.”
Hensley, 461 U.S. at 434 n. 9, 103 S.Ct. 1933. Plaintiffs’ counsel has eliminated any time spent
solely pursuing the claims against defendants, Joseph Clemente, and the Estate of Michael Milano
a.k.a. Frank Clemente, deceased. See Kramer Affidavit at ¶ 3. Therefore, a reduction of the amount
requested in the fee application on this score would not be appropriate. In sum, the Court will,
therefore, order that plaintiff be awarded $54,283.75 in attorneys’ fees. Further, the Court will
order that the plaintiffs be reimbursed for $3,479.30 in costs, consistent with the itemized listing
attached to the billing records of Attorney Kramer pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1920 and Fed.R.Civ.P.
54(d). II. Subsequent to the entry of judgment in July 1997, Clemente was represented by Robert A.
Hager, Esq., Daniel M. McIntyre, Esq., and the law firm of Buckingham, Doolittle & Burroughs. On
July 11, 1997, Clemente, by and through his counsel, filed a motion for new trial and to amend the
Judgment Entry and Find ings of Fact and Conclusions of Law Dated July 1, 1997 (Doc. 110). Doc. 118
at Exhibit C. On July 31,1997, the Court denied the motion by marginal entry. Thereafter, settlement
negotiations between counsel took place from August 13, 1997 through September 2, 1997. Counsel for
Clemente entered into an agreement with plaintiffs’ counsel to settle “any and all claims the
parties have against the other.” Acknowledgement Letter, dated August 29, 1997, from John P.
Slagter, Esq. of the law firm of Buckingham, Doolittle & Burroughs. Doc. 122 at Exhibit B. The
agreement provided that “[i]n reliance on the settlement, my client is not filing a Notice of
Appeal.” Id. Clemente does not dispute that his counsel had authority to enter into an agreement.
Apparently unbeknownst to the counsel that he had hired, two days prior to the settlement, Clemente
had filed the within pro se request to have the Court grant certification of appealability to all
issues raised and for relief from judgment in order to file a timely notice of appeal. Clemente
requests that the Court reconsider its denial of the motion for new trial and to amend the Judgment
Entry and Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law Dated July 1, 1997 (Doc. 110). Less than one month
prior to the filing of Clemente’s pro se request, the Court considered the very same issues and
denied the first post-judgment motion. In his pro se request, rather than provide any new
information, Clemente reiterates the claims asserted in the motion for new trial and to amend the
Judgment Entry and Findings and Conclusions.


