**gold_text:**
After a thorough review of the case law, I cannot find any basis for finding a violation of the
automatic stay on the record before me. Chase did not violate the stay by transferring the Corderos’
mortgage after the bankruptcy filing. See In re Cook, 457 F.3d 561, 568 (6th Cir.2006) (citing
Kapila v. Atlantic Mortgage & Investment Corp., 184 F.3d 1335, 1337 (11th Cir.1999)). Chase did not
violate the stay by communicating a default to the FHA, where the purpose of the communication was
simply to obtain repayment from a third-party guarantor. Cf. In re Colon, 212 B.R. 23, 25
(Bkrtcy.D.Puerto Rico 1997) (failure of a higher education corporation to remove a default notation
from debtor’s record upon the filing of a bankruptcy or the confirmation of the plan “was a
communication that the debtor had an uncured default” and did not violate the automatic stay). And
Chase did not violate the stay by collecting from a third-party “guarantor” of the Corderos’
mortgage debt. See Lynch v. Johns-Manville Sales Corp., 710 F.2d 1194, 1196-97 (6th Cir.1983) (“[i]t
is universally acknowledged that an automatic stay of proceedings accorded by § 362 may not be
invoked by entities such as sureties, guarantors, co-obligors, or others with a similar legal or
factual nexus to the ... debtor”); In re Smith, 14 B.R. 956, 957 (Bkrtcy.D.Conn.1981) (student loan
creditor did not violate automatic stay by putting guarantor on notice of the plaintiffs default and
requesting payment from guarantor in accordance with their loan guarantee agreement). In sum, the
Corderos have not submitted any case law, and I have not found any either, in which a creditor was
sanctioned for violating the automatic stay under the circumstances present in this case. I do not
doubt that Chase’s actions made it more difficult (or impossible) for the Corderos to obtain a
second guaranty from the FHA, or that Chase could have improved the Corderos’ prospects for
reorganization by declining to make a claim against the mortgage insurance policy. Anytime a
creditor, such as Chase, seeks repayment from a third party surety or guarantor, such as the FHA,
the third party is less likely to guaranty the debtor’s future debts. But the fact that the debtor
can no longer obtain a guaranty from that third party, is no fault of the collecting creditor, and
cannot be held a sanctionable interference with the debtor’s property. As explained by the Fourth
Circuit in Credit Alliance Corp. v. Williams, 851 F.2d 119, 121-22 (4th Cir.1988), a primary
rationale for refusing to extend the automatic stay to nonbankrupt third parties is to insure that
creditors obtain “the protection they sought and received when they required a third party to
guaranty the debt.”

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
In the case at hand, Chase argues that it did not violate the automatic stay provisions under 11
U.S.C. § 362(a) as its actions were legally permissible under the Bankruptcy Code. Reference case
457 F.3d 561 sets a relevant precedent by clarifying that certain post-petition transfers of
mortgage interest do not violate the automatic stay, as the property interest being transferred does
not belong to the debtor. Here, Chase's actions involved transferring its interest in the Corderos'
mortgage, which aligns with this precedent.  Moreover, the case of Kapila v. Atlantic Mortgage &
Investment Corp., 184 F.3d 1335, further supports this position by holding that a mortgage interest
may be transferred post-petition, as the property owner holds only legal title, not an equitable
interest. Chase’s actions, which involved reporting the default and collecting mortgage insurance
from the FHA, mirror this scenario as they pertained solely to enforcing its own equitable interest
and did not interfere with the debtors' legal rights over their property.  Additionally, considering
the ruling in In re Smith, 14 B.R. 956, where the court held that a creditor's actions against a
codebtor did not violate the automatic stay, Chase's conduct in addressing the default and insurance
collection from the FHA should be similarly viewed as permissible.  For all these reasons, the
allegations by the Corderos lack sufficient legal basis to support the default judgment for
sanctions against Chase. Therefore, as the bankruptcy court’s decision conflicts with established
precedents, its order granting sanctions is vacated.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
 Based on the provided reference cases, it appears that Chase Manhattan Mortgage did not violate the
automatic stay by collecting the Corderos' debts from a third party. The court in Kapila v. Atlantic
Mortgage & Investment Corp., 184 F.3d 1335, 1337 (11th Cir.1999), held that the owner of a mortgage
interest may transfer its interest after the mortgagor files for bankruptcy, and that the perfected
mortgage is neither actually nor potentially the property of the debtor.  In the present case, Chase
transferred the Corderos' mortgage and declared the mortgage in default, but did not take any action
to collect the debt from the Corderos themselves. According to State of California v. Taxel, 98 F.3d
1147, 1150 (9th Cir.1996), the automatic stay provisions of 11 U.S.C. § 362 have been violated if a
creditor takes action to collect a pre-petition debt from the debtor or from a third party. However,
there is no evidence in this record to suggest that Chase took any action to collect the debt from
the Corderos or from a third party.  Furthermore, the court in Nishimatsu Const. Co., Ltd. v.
Houston Nat. Bank, 515 F.2d 1200, 1206 (5th Cir.1976), held that a default judgment is unassailable
on the merits but only so far as it is supported by well-pleaded allegations, assumed to be true. In
this case, the Corderos' allegations do not support a finding that Chase violated the automatic
stay.  In conclusion, based on the reference cases, Chase Manhattan Mortgage did not violate the
automatic stay by collecting the Corderos' debts from a third party. The court's default judgment
for sanctions against Chase is therefore vacated.  References: 457 F.3d 561, 457 F.3d 561, 184 F.3d
1335, 184 F.3d 1335, 212 B.R. 23, 710 F.2d 1194, 710 F.2d 1194, 14 B.R. 956, 851 F.2d 119, 851 F.2d
119


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-finetuned:***
  Chase did not take any action against the Corderos to collect or satisfy the mortgage debt, nor
did it take any action to coerce the Corderos into repaying the mortgage debt. Chase’s actions were
taken with respect to the Corderos’ original mortgage and the FHA insurance policy for that
mortgage, not with respect to the Corderos’ new FHA-insured loan. The Corderos’ allegations that
Chase’s actions caused them to lose the approved FHA-insured financing do not, as a matter of law,
support a finding that Chase violated the automatic stay. See In re Rogan, 457 F.3d 561, 563 (5th
Cir.2006) (a creditor may transfer its interest in a mortgage after a debtor files for bankruptcy
and still be entitled to enforce the mortgage); In re Kapila, 184 F.3d 1335, 1337 (11th Cir.1999) (a
mortgage lender may transfer its interest in a mortgage after a debtor files for bankruptcy and
still be entitled to enforce the mortgage); In re Cooks, 212 B.R. 23, 25 (Bkrtcy.D.Md.1997) (a
mortgage lender may transfer its interest in a mortgage after a debtor files for bankruptcy and
still be entitled to enforce the mortgage); In re Saunders, 105 B.R. 781, 783 (Bankr.E.D.Pa.1989) (a
student loan creditor did not violate the automatic stay by denying a student aid application
pending bankruptcy discharge). See also 11 U.S.C. § 362(a)(6) (staying any “act to collect, assess,
or recover a claim against the debtor that arose before the commencement of the case under this
title”); In re Williams, 851 F.2d 119, 122 (5th Cir.1988) (a creditor may file a proof of claim in
connection with a pre-petition debt and still be entitled to enforce the debt); In re Miller, 710
F.2d 1194, 1196 (5th Cir.1983) (a creditor may instruct its attorney to “take appropriate action” to
protect its interests and still be entitled to enforce the debt). In re Corderos, 14 B.R. 956, 958
(Bkrtcy.D.Conn.1981) (a creditor may take action to protect its interests in a mortgage after a
debtor files for bankruptcy


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['457 F.3d 561', '457 F.3d 561', '184 F.3d 1335', '184 F.3d 1335', '212 B.R. 23', '710 F.2d 1194',
'710 F.2d 1194', '14 B.R. 956', '851 F.2d 119', '851 F.2d 119']

***short_citations_0:*** 457 F.3d 561

the bankruptcy petition therefore has no effect on its ability to enforce the mortgage against Rogan. 3. Did Bank One violate the automatic stay? Rogan’s final argument is that the attempt by Bank One to perfect its interest in the mortgage after the filing of the bankruptcy petition violated the automatic stay placed on all actions against the Cooks’ property. This argument was rejected by both the bankruptcy court and the district court. Both courts cited the case of Kapila v. Atlantic Mortgage & Investment Corp., 184 F.3d 1335, 1337 (11th Cir.1999), which held that the owner of a mortgage interest may transfer its interest after the mortgagor files for bankruptcy. The court in Kapila reasoned that a property owner holds only legal title— and not an equitable interest — in the property that has been mortgaged. Id. It cited various provisions of the Bankruptcy Code for the proposition that a bankruptcy trustee cannot avoid post-bankruptcy transfers of the mortgage interest because “the perfected mortgage is neither actually nor potentially the property of the debtor.” Id. We agree with the Eleventh Circuit’s analysis and affirm the bankruptcy court’s holding that Bank One did not violate the automatic stay. Bank One did not transfer or attempt to perfect legal title to the Cooks’ property, but recorded only the bank’s equitable interest in the property, which does not belong to the debtors. III. CONCLUSION For all of the reasons set forth above, we AFFIRM the judgment of the bankruptcy court.

***short_citations_1:*** 457 F.3d 561

the bankruptcy petition therefore has no effect on its ability to enforce the mortgage against Rogan. 3. Did Bank One violate the automatic stay? Rogan’s final argument is that the attempt by Bank One to perfect its interest in the mortgage after the filing of the bankruptcy petition violated the automatic stay placed on all actions against the Cooks’ property. This argument was rejected by both the bankruptcy court and the district court. Both courts cited the case of Kapila v. Atlantic Mortgage & Investment Corp., 184 F.3d 1335, 1337 (11th Cir.1999), which held that the owner of a mortgage interest may transfer its interest after the mortgagor files for bankruptcy. The court in Kapila reasoned that a property owner holds only legal title— and not an equitable interest — in the property that has been mortgaged. Id. It cited various provisions of the Bankruptcy Code for the proposition that a bankruptcy trustee cannot avoid post-bankruptcy transfers of the mortgage interest because “the perfected mortgage is neither actually nor potentially the property of the debtor.” Id. We agree with the Eleventh Circuit’s analysis and affirm the bankruptcy court’s holding that Bank One did not violate the automatic stay. Bank One did not transfer or attempt to perfect legal title to the Cooks’ property, but recorded only the bank’s equitable interest in the property, which does not belong to the debtors. III. CONCLUSION For all of the reasons set forth above, we AFFIRM the judgment of the bankruptcy court.

***short_citations_2:*** 184 F.3d 1335

a trustee may rely on Fla. Stat. § 701.02 to prevail against improperly recorded assignments of a duly recorded mortgage, we endorse the decision of the bankruptcy court to steer a different course.

***short_citations_3:*** 184 F.3d 1335

trustee may rely on Fla. Stat. § 701.02 to prevail against improperly recorded assignments of a duly recorded mortgage, we endorse the decision of the bankruptcy court to steer a different course.

***short_citations_4:*** 212 B.R. 23

automatic stay of 11 U.S.C. § 362. The automatic stay provides protection against acts to collect a pre-petition debt. The denial of student aid to a bankruptcy student based on a pre-petition debt, does not violate the automatic stay. See In re Saunders, 105 B.R. 781 (Bankr.E.D.Pa.1989) (holding that actions of Higher Education Assistance Agency in denying debtor higher education grant pending notice, of bankruptcy discharge, did not constitute violation of automatic stay). In the present case, the Court concludes that Great Lakes did not make any post-petition attempt to collect the pre-petition debt. There was no demand or attempt to coerce payment. The Court concludes that Great Lakes’ refusal to remove the default notation was a communication that the debtor had an uncured default. Accordingly, the debtors’ request to have the Court hold Great Lakes liable for violation of the automatic stay of 11 U.S.C. § 362 will be denied. The debtors allege that Great Lakes violated the anti-discrimination provisions of 11 U.S.C. § 525, by failing to adjust their records to take into account the provisions of the debtors’ Chapter 13 plan. The debtor argues that he was discriminated against solely on the basis of being a “bankruptcy student”, despite having cured the default through the confirmed plan. The debtors note that 20 U.S.C. § 1078-6(a)(l)(A) and § 1078-6(b) allow a non-bankruptcy student to cure or workout a default and obtain a new grant or aid, yet a student in bankruptcy attempting to cure a default through a

***short_citations_5:*** 710 F.2d 1194

of relief, or other measures, the prejudice can be lessened or avoided; third, whether a judgment rendered in the person’s absence will be adequate; fourth, whether the plaintiff will have an adequate remedy if the action is dismissed for nonjoinder.

***short_citations_6:*** 710 F.2d 1194

the judgment, by the shaping of relief, or other measures, the prejudice can be lessened or avoided; third, whether a judgment rendered in the person’s absence will be adequate; fourth, whether the plaintiff will have an adequate remedy if the action is dismissed for nonjoinder.

***short_citations_7:*** 14 B.R. 956

commenced.”) Thus, Code Section 509(a) contemplates the precise course of events the plaintiff criticizes in this case as a violation of the automatic stay. The defendant became liable with plaintiff-debtor when the latter failed to pay the student loan. The defendant paid that debt and is subrogated to the rights of the original creditor, Connecticut National Bank. Since the bank’s total activity was to assert a claim against and obtain payment from the defendant, a codebtor, the plaintiff’s claim that that conduct violates the automatic stay is without merit and fails as a matter of law. The plaintiff’s remaining claim that the defendant violated the automatic stay by instructing its attorney to “take appropriate action to protect the interest of the foundation” is equally without merit. If a creditor may file a proof of claim in connection with a prepetition debt, it may certainly request its attorney to “take appropriate action” to protect its interests. The “appropriate action” in this case was the filing of an answer denying the hardship defense to a section 523(a)(8) discharge exclusion and the assertion of a counterclaim, as stated above. The plaintiff does not and cannot reasonably argue that the defendant violated the automatic stay by such activity on the part of its attorney. Although Rule 15 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure , made applicable in this proceeding by Bankruptcy Rule 715, provides that permission by the court to amend should be “freely given when justice so requires”, justice in this case

***short_citations_8:*** 851 F.2d 119

A. Miller, & E. Cooper, Federal Practice and Procedure § 4442 (1981). Appellant is, therefore, estopped from relitigating the merits of the New York judgment. We conclude that the judgment against Gary Williams is valid and enforceable. The judgment of the district court is therefore AFFIRMED.

***short_citations_9:*** 851 F.2d 119

A. Miller, & E. Cooper, Federal Practice and Procedure § 4442 (1981). Appellant is, therefore, estopped from relitigating the merits of the New York judgment. We conclude that the judgment against Gary Williams is valid and enforceable. The judgment of the district court is therefore AFFIRMED.

**prev_text:**
Order JORDAN, District Judge. Chase Manhattan Mortgage appeals from the bankruptcy court’s order
granting sanctions against it for violating the automatic stay in the Cordero’s Chapter 13
bankruptcy case, and from the bankruptcy court’s order denying reconsideration of the order granting
sanctions. For the reasons explained below, the bankruptcy court’s order granting sanctions is
VACATED. I. Facts Mr. and Mrs. Cordero filed a petition for bankruptcy under Chapter 13 of the
Bankruptcy Code on November 6, 2002. At that time, Chase was servicing a mortgage on the Corderos’
homestead property held by a related entity, Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems (the “Chase
mortgage”). Chase/MERS was represented by the law firm of Codilis & Stawiarski P.A. (“C & S”) in the
Corderos’ bankruptcy case. The Corderos filed a Chapter 13 plan on November 6, 2002, in which they
acknowledged that they were in default on the Chase mortgage, and set forth a proposed plan to pay
off the mortgage and arrear-age. The bankruptcy court approved the plan. The Corderos subsequently
sought bankruptcy court approval to refinance the Chase mortgage and to pay off their Chapter 13
plan, and such approval was granted on May 20, 2004. The Corderos expected to refinance their
mortgage at an interest rate of 5.875%, based on a quotation obtained from Wholesale Home Lenders.
However, the Corderos were required to refinance at the higher rate of 8.375%, because they did not
qualify for the lower rate loan. In the meantime, Chase had taken steps to assign its mortgage on
the Corderos’ homestead. Specifically, in a May 11, 2004, letter to the Corderos, Chase informed the
Corderos that [a]s a result of your default on your mortgage loan, we made a claim for payment on
the FHA mortgage insurance. In connection with that claim, we assigned your mortgage loan to FHA.
FHA sold your mortgage loan to SFJV-2003-1, LLC, which is now the new owner of your mortgage loan
... As a result of the assignment of your mortgage loan to HUD, the payment by FHA of the FHA
mortgage insurance claim and the subsequent sale and assignment of your mortgage loan to
SFJV-2003-1, LLC, the FHA mortgage insurance on your mortgage loan was terminated and no further
mortgage insurance premiums are due by you. The letter further states that the assignment of the
loan “does not affect any term or condition of the mortgage documents / security instruments, other
than terms directly related to the servicing of your loan.” On April 4, 2005, the debtors filed a
motion for sanctions against Chase arguing that Chase violated the automatic stay, see 11 U.S.C. §
362(a), by (a) transferring their mortgage, (b) concluding that the Corderos were in default on the
mortgage at the time the transfer was made, and (c) collecting Federal Housing Administration
(“FHA”) mortgage insurance on account of the Corderos’ alleged default. Specifically, the motion
alleged that the Corderos had been approved for, and were prepared to close on, new FHA-insured
financing on their homestead, but that they were unable to qualify for the new financing because
Chase reported to the FHA that their current mortgage was in default. The Corderos further alleged
that Chase was receiving monthly plan payments from them at the time the mortgage was declared in
default, that Chase did not notify the Corderos before it took action to collect the FHA insurance,
and that Chase did not seek stay relief from the bankruptcy court before taking such action. The
Corderos’ motion for sanctions does not specify which provision of 11 U.S.C. § 362(a) was violated
by Chase’s conduct. On April 26, 2005, the bankruptcy court held a hearing on the Corderos’ motion
for sanctions. Chase did not appear. At the hearing, the bankruptcy court heard testimony from the
Corderos and admitted evidence on the approved FHA-insured loan, the actual loan obtained by the
Corderos, and the sale of certain real property. The bankruptcy court determined that Chase violated
the automatic stay “in transferring its mortgage to America’s Servicing Company, ... [and in]
concluding] that the debtors, Mr. and Mrs. Cordero, were in default of their mortgage obligation at
the time the transfer was made,” but did not specify which section of 11 U.S.C. § 362(a) was
violated by Chase’s conduct. April 26, 2005, Hearing Transcript at 23-24. On June 30, 2005, the
bankruptcy court entered a default judgment for sanctions against Chase in the amount of
$145,908.80, based on the higher refinancing rate paid by the Corderos on their new loan and the
forced sale of certain real property to pay off their plan. On July 11, 2005, Chase filed a timely
motion for rehearing, arguing that it never received proper notice of the motion for sanctions or
the hearing, and that it was entitled to rehearing on account of excusable neglect. The bankruptcy
court conducted a hearing on Chase’s motion. At the hearing, Chase introduced testimony from the
paralegal at C & S who had received the notice of hearing and mistakenly forwarded it to America’s
Servicing Company, since Chase was no longer the servicer of the Corderos’ mortgage. On March 14,
2006, the bankruptcy court entered an order denying the motion for reconsideration without much
explanation, and without making any factual findings on the issue of excusable neglect. On May 31,
2006, Chase appealed the bankruptcy court’s order granting sanctions, arguing that it did not
violate the automatic stay by collecting the Corderos’ debts from a third party. Chase also appealed
the bankruptcy court’s denial of its motion for reconsideration, arguing that it presented
sufficient evidence of excusable neglect such that reconsideration was warranted. II. Standard of
Review Because of the default judgment against it, on appeal Chase necessarily admits the Corderos’
well-pleaded allegations of fact, is concluded on those facts by the judgment, and is barred from
contesting those facts. See Nishimatsu Const. Co., Ltd. v. Houston Nat. Bank, 515 F.2d 1200, 1206
(5th Cir.1976). However, Chase’s failure to defend the motion for sanctions for violating the stay
does not in itself warrant a default judgment. “A default judgment is unassailable on the merits but
only so far as it is supported by well-pleaded allegations, assumed to be true.” Id. A default
judgment may only be lawfully entered where there is a sufficient basis in the pleadings. Id.
Therefore, while Chase may not challenge the sufficiency of the evidence underlying the default
judgment on appeal, Chase is entitled to challenge the sufficiency of the allegations supporting the
judgment. Id. Whether the Corderos’ allegations are sufficient to support a judgment for violation
of the automatic stay is a question of law, which I review de novo. See State of California v.
Taxel, 98 F.3d 1147, 1150 (9th Cir.1996) (whether the automatic stay provisions of 11 U.S.C. § 362
have been violated is a question of law subject to de novo review). Cf. In re Chase & Sanborn Corp.,
904 F.2d 588, 593 (11th Cir.1990). The bankruptcy court’s refusal to set aside the default judgment
for sanctions on the grounds of “excusable neglect” is reviewed for abuse of discretion. See In re
Worldwide Web Systems, Inc., 328 F.3d 1291, 1295 (11th Cir.2003). III. DISCUSSION It is undisputed
that, following the Corderos’ petition for bankruptcy, Chase transferred the Corderos’ mortgage,
declared the mortgage in default, and collected mortgage insurance from the FHA, a third party
insurer of the Corderos’ mortgage loan. Furthermore, on appeal, Chase is bound by the bankruptcy
court’s factual findings that the Corderos had obtained an agreement from Wholesale Home Lenders to
refinance their mortgage at 4.25% and that the Corderos were ultimately required to refinance their
mortgage at 8.375% because of Chase’s actions. Notwithstanding these facts, I conclude that the
default judgment for sanctions against Chase is not supported by sufficient allegations as a matter
of law, and therefore cannot stand. Under 11 U.S.C. § 362(a), the filing of a petition for
bankruptcy prevents creditors from collecting pre-petition debts by en joining a broad range of
collection efforts, harassment and foreclosure actions (the “automatic stay”), including: (3) any
act to obtain possession of property of the estate or of property from the estate or to exercise
control over property of the estate; ... (6) any act to collect, assess, or recover a claim against
the debtor that arose before the commencement of the case under this title; Any party who willfully
violates the automatic stay is liable for actual damages and, in appropriate circumstances, punitive
damages. See 11 U.S.C. § 36200(1) (formerly § 362(h)) In their motion for sanctions, the Corde-ros
did not allege that Chase took any action against them to collect or satisfy the mortgage debt, or
that Chase’s actions were intended to pressure the Corderos into repaying such debt. Such conduct
could be a violation of the automatic stay, see, e.g., In re Weinhoeft, 2000 WL 33963628 at *2
(Bkrtcy.C.D.Ill.,2000) (a credit report, even if truthful, could be deemed a violation of the
automatic stay if made with the intent to harass or coerce a debtor into paying a pre-petition
debt), but there are no allegations in this record to support sanctions on this basis. Nor did the
Corderos allege that Chase’s actions, in any way, affected the terms of their existing note and
mortgage. Changing the terms of the existing note and mortgage, by, for example, increasing the
interest rate or shortening the loan term where not otherwise provided for in the loan agreement,
could also violate the automatic stay. See Matter of Lauretti Corp., 86 B.R. 751, 754
(Bkrtcy.D.Conn.1986). Again, there are no allegations in the record to support sanctions on this
basis either. Finally, the Corderos did not allege that they had a property interest in the FHA
insurance covering their mortgage. Chase made a claim against the insurance policy and then
terminated the policy. If the Corderos had alleged a property interest in the mortgage insurance
policy, there could also have been a basis for upholding the bankruptcy court’s order granting
sanctions for Chase’s alleged violation of the automatic stay. See, e.g., In re Minoco Group of
Companies, Ltd., 799 F.2d 517, 519 (9th Cir.1986)(officers and directors liability policies, which
insured debtor against indemnity claims made by its officers and directors, benefitted debtor and
constituted “property of the estate,” so that cancellation of the policies by insurers after debtor
filed bankruptcy was automatically stayed); In re Bivens, 324 B.R. 39, 43-44 (Bkrtcy.N.D.Ohio 2004)
(mortgage lender violated automatic stay by contacting debtor’s property insurer and seeking to have
adjustments made in coverage). The Corderos alleged only that Chase violated the automatic stay by
taking control or possession of property of the estate by interfering with the Corderos’
“contractual property right” to their approved FHA-insured mortgage refinancing. See Corderos’
Initial Brief at 12-13; Corderos’ Motion for Sanctions at 1 (alleging that the Corderos were
approved for new FHA-insured financing and that Chase’s actions caused them to lose this financing).
See also 11 U.S.C. § 362(a)(3) (staying any “act to obtain possession of property of the estate or
of property from the estate or to exercise control over property of the estate”). But the Corderos’
allegations do not support an award of sanctions on this basis either. Assuming that the Corderos
had a contractual right to the refinancing, and that this contractual right was “property of the
estate,” the record is completely devoid of allegations that Chase sought to obtain possession of or
exercise control over the new loan agreement, as required to find a violation of the stay under §
362(a)(3). Chase did not cancel the refinancing agreement — the new lender and/or the FHA did. Chase
did not increase the terms of the new financing — the new lender did. Chase did not terminate the
original note and mortgage — the Corderos did. The only actions taken by Chase were taken with
respect to the Corderos’ original mortgage and the FHA insurance policy for that mortgage.
Therefore, as a matter of law, there is no basis for concluding that Chase violated the stay by
taking action to obtain possession of or to exercise control over the Corderos’ new FHA-insured
loan. Cf. In re Smith, 14 B.R. 956, 958 (Bkrtcy.D.Conn.1981) (“Since the bank’s total activity was
to assert a claim against and obtain payment from a codebtor, the plaintiffs claim that that conduct
violates the automatic stay is without merit and fails as a matter of law.”).


