**gold_text:**
. 1932 A.M.C. 933, 935 (W.D.N.Y.). See also Mississippi Valley Barge Line Co. v. Indian Towing Co.,
232 F.2d 750, 753 n. 4 (5th Cir. 1956); La Hue v. United Fruit Co., 181 F.2d 895, 898-899 (4th Cir.
1950); McConnochie v. Kerr, 9 F. 50, 53 (S.D.N.Y.1881); The Saragossa, Fed.Cas.No.12,334, 1 Ben.
551, 553 (1867).

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
The District Court's determination conflicts with established precedents regarding marine peril and
salvage. In our view, the factual record does not support the trial judge's conclusion that there
was no "reasonably to be apprehended" peril. As noted in The Freedom, 181 F.2d 895, “It is not
necessary that there be danger immediately impending, but if the vessel is stranded so that it is
subject to the potential danger of damage or destruction, she may well be a subject of salvage
services.”  Furthermore, the classification of service as towage or salvage must be carefully
examined. In 232 F.2d 750, the court distinguished between "simple" towage and salvage, noting that
the latter involves a higher degree of service. The Fort Myers' services, being intensive and
involving re-floating efforts, arguably qualify as salvage, a point that necessitates thorough
factual inquiry.  Moreover, in 9 F. 50, it was established that a settlement for towage does not
preclude a reclassification to salvage if services rendered meet salvage criteria. The Fort Myers'
claim, therefore, should not be dismissed purely on contractual grounds without a detailed
evaluation of the services rendered.  The judgment is reversed, and the case is remanded for a new
trial consistent with these principles.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
  The cases before us present an interesting question regarding the scope of salvage services and
the factors that determine whether a service is considered "low order" or "high order." The
reference case 232 F.2d 750 provides guidance on this issue, stating that whether a service is
"simple" or "low order" salvage is left to the considered judgment of the judge, as life's variables
defy repetition.  In the present case, the district court held that the services rendered by Fort
Myers Shell were not in danger, either imminent or reasonably to be apprehended. However, the
reference case 181 F.2d 895 suggests that a stranded vessel may be subject to potential danger of
damage or destruction, even if not immediately impending. Therefore, we cannot say that as a matter
of law peril was not reasonably to be apprehended.  The district court also concluded that Fort
Myers was contractually obligated to unbeach the barges, citing a modification and continuation of
the prior towing contract. However, the reference case 9 F. 50 states that a shipowner's request for
a salvage service and the salvors' response in furnishing it, standing alone, does not create an
implied contract. Therefore, we cannot find sufficient evidence to support the district court's
conclusion.  In conclusion, the district court's determination that Fort Myers was not entitled to
salvage compensation is reversed, and the case is remanded for a new trial. The issue of the scope
of the peril and the factors that determine whether a service is considered "low order" or "high
order" salvage must be fully explored and factually supported.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-finetuned:***
  . In The San Jose, 232 F.2d 750, 753 (5th Cir. 1956), this court, citing The Freedom, supra, noted
that the test for salvage is not whether the peril is imminent, but whether it is “reasonably to be
apprehended.” In The Sahara, 181 F.2d 895, 897 (5th Cir. 1950), this court said: “Salvage is not
limited to cases where the ship is in imminent danger, but includes those where the ship is in a
situation where she is subject to the potential danger of damage or destruction.” See also The Emily
B. Souder, 9 F. 50, 51 (C.C.D. Mass. 1881). The test for salvage is not a simple one. See The San
Jose, supra, 232 F.2d at 753. The trial court in the present case did not have before it the full
factual inquiry necessary to determine whether the barges were subject to a marine peril and whether
Fort Myers’ services were voluntarily rendered. The court’s determination that the barges were not
in a marine peril and that Fort Myers’ services were not voluntary is therefore not binding on this
court. The case is remanded for a new trial. The respondents may present evidence on the issues of
marine peril and voluntary service. See The San Jose, supra, 232 F.2d at 753. The respondents may
also present evidence on the issue of success in whole or in part, or that the service rendered
contributed to such success. See The Sabine, supra, 101 U.S. at 386, 25 L.Ed. 982. The District
Court’s determination that Fort Myers’ services were not salvage services but rather towage services
is also not binding on this court. The court’s determination that the barges were not in a marine
peril is not binding on this court. The court’s determination that Fort Myers “forced its services
upon the barges” and that it would be grossly inequitable under the circumstances of this case to
require the respondents to pay is also not binding on this court. The court’s determination that
Fort Myers’ conduct was so inequitable as to bar it from relief is also not binding on this court.
The court’s determination that Fort Myers’ conduct was so inequitable as to bar it from relief is
also not binding on this court. The court’s determination that Fort Myers’ conduct was so inequ


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['232 F.2d 750', '181 F.2d 895', '9 F. 50']

***short_citations_0:*** 232 F.2d 750

that changes the “simple” towage to something else? What does it become? What makes “low order” salvage into something higher ? How much higher in rank does it have to be to invoke a new or different rule? There is thus no certainty in the absolute proposed. It only aids when the crucial fact is determined — that the case is a simple one. But whether it is something less or something more must inevitably be left to the considered judgment of the judge. Since life’s variables defy repetition, today’s “low order” situation may present much different concerns than tomorrow’s. The category itself is too elastic to think that once identified as such, the result or solution must be inflexible. While claiming, as the Trial Court found, that it was of a low order, the salved barge owner concedes that these were salvage services and not towage, as such. The salved barge MV 603, worth approximately $60,000.00, 195 feet long, 35-foot beam, depth 11 feet, went adrift off of Petit Bois Island (south of Pascagoula, Mississippi) about 7:30 p. m., February 14. She was light, drawing perhaps two feet leaving nine feet of her hull plus the height of special hatch covers exposed to the wind. Twenty-two hours later, 5:00 p. m., February 15, she was sighted 30 miles south of Mobile Bay which meant she had drifted approximately 35 miles to the southeast. Sixteen hours later, 9:00 a. m., February 16, she was sighted by a Coast Guard plane

***short_citations_1:*** 181 F.2d 895

the water. She was out of commerce and useless in her then situation — to all intents and purposes a total loss as a vessel unless floated.” In The Freedom, 1932 A.M.C. 933 at page 9^35, the Court said: “It is not necessary that there be danger immediately impending, but if the vessel is stranded so that it is subject to the potential danger of damage or destruction she may well be a subject of salvage services.” One of the cases most favorable to libelants is The Sahara, D.C., 246 F. 141, 142, where the Court found that “the ship’s engines might have gotten her off” and “during all the time the weather was good, and the ship was in no imminent danger.” A salvage award was granted but the Court went on to say, 246 F. at page 142, that “the coast, however, is very dangerous, and no ship can wisely take chances with it.” See also Baker v. Hemenway, 2 Fed. Cas. page 463, No. 770, where a stranded vessel could' have freed herself, but a 1 salvage award was allowed because it was doubtful whether she could have got ten off before high water, at which time she would have been placed in a dangerous situation. In the instant case there was substantial evidence to support the conclusion of the District Court that the San Jose was not in danger, either imminent or reasonably to be apprehended. There was, as previously stated, evidence that the San Jose

***short_citations_2:*** 9 F. 50

and intent of the award were made known to the parties to it, that they acquiesced in it, and that the moneys in question were paid to Kerr in execution of it. A settlement thus made is binding upon the parties to it. Neither side, as against the other, can afterwards legally or equitably assert any claims at variance with its intent or legal effect. Though the service rendered might be subsequently adjudged to be a salvage service, in proceedings by other persons interested, Kerr could claim no benefit from any share in the compensation that would have been awarded to him as owner, though it might be much larger than that received in his settlement; nor could the owners of the Colon claim .any protection or indemnity from Kerr against the claims of any other persons not bound by the award and settlement. Nor can the court vary the amount of compensation awarded; but, as it was made upon the basis of a towage service only, it must bo presumed to have been much less than would have been awarded to Kerr upon the basis of a salvage compensation. The Emily B. Souder, 15 Blatchf. 185. As this court cannot directly set aside or vary the terms of the •award and settlement, so it cannot do so indirectly at the suit of others by compelling Kerr to share with thorn the money which was paid to him for his own separate interest as owner, unless others have a clear

**prev_text:**
GODBOLD, Circuit Judge: This is an appeal from a final judgment dismissing with prejudice the libel-
ant’s claim for salvage, which was entered at the conclusion of the libelant’s case upon the
respondents’ motion for a “directed verdict.” The facts before the trial court, by-stipulation and
oral testimony, give the following picture. In early March of 1965, Edmonson Towing Company
telephoned the libelant Fort Myers Shell asking that Fort Myers send a tug to meet Edmonson’s Tug
Nellie in the Gulf of Mexico outside Fort Myers, Florida and there take over the tow of two steel
barges belonging to the respondents. Edmonson and Fort Myers agreed that Fort Myers would pick up
the barges from the Nellie on Saturday morning, March 6, at the sea buoy off Sanibel. Island and
would then tow the barges up the Caloosahatchie River into port, delivering them to the respondents’
Tug Leon Roddy. A price of $1000 was set for the proposed towing job. The Nellie arrived off Sanibel
Island in the late afternoon of Friday, March 5. Fort Myers was notified of the Nellie’s arrival but
declined to send its tug to meet the Nellie at that time, claiming that the weather was too rough
and that nightfall was approaching. During the night the Nellie’s hawser parted and she lost her
tow. The two barges were washed ashore on Fort Myers Beach, and the Nellie ran aground farther up
the coast. Later Friday night the Coast Guard located the two barges, secured them by lines to palm
trees on high ground, and notified Fort Myers. Fort Myers put watchmen on the barges and telephoned
Edmonson and Edmonson’s towing broker, either or both of whom requested that Fort Myers do what it
could to free the barges and turn them over to the Tug Leon Roddy. According to the testimony of two
officers of Fort Myers, further conversations were had with Ed-monson, the respondent Oliver, and
the United States Salvage Association, each of whom said that he would see that Fort Myers would be
compensated, but none of whom made an explicit offer to pay. On Saturday morning Fort Myers’ tug,
Belle of Myers, proceeded down the Caloosahatchie River and, after pulling the Tug Nellie off the
flats, located the two barges. The barges were positioned in tandem above the normal high water
mark, parallel to the shoreline, near the remaining pilings of an old dock. For the remainder of
Saturday the Belle of Myers tried unsuccessfully to float the barges. On the following day she was
joined by another of Fort Myers’ tugs and by the Leon Roddy, and after considerable effort the three
succeeded in re-floating both stranded vessels. The Leon Roddy towed one barge into port. Fort
Myers, claiming to have received no clear promises of payment from any of the other parties,
retained the other barge to secure payment of its fees. It later sent a bill for its services in the
amount of $3,514.42 to the respondent with copies to Edmonson and the Salvage Association. In due
course libels for salvage services were brought against the barges and their owners. The District
Court found that on the basis of the stipulated facts and the testimony of libelant’s witnesses the
barges were not in “imminent” danger and, therefore, as a matter of law they were not subject to a
peril of the sea. It also held that Fort Myers’ services in unbeaching the barges constituted a
continuation of its towage contract to deliver the barges to the respondent, rather than a voluntary
act of salvage. Finally, the court held that Fort Myers’ conduct was so inequitable as to bar it
from relief. The standard of “imminent” danger employed by the trial judge is not the test of marine
peril. As this court stated in The Leonie O. Louise, 4 F.2d 699, 700 (1925), the standard is not
whether the peril is imminent, but rather whether it is “reasonably to be apprehended.” As was said
in The Freedom: It is not necessary that there be danger immediately impending, but if the vessel is
stranded so that it is subject to the potential danger of damage or destruction she may well be a
subject of salvage services. On the record before us we cannot say that as a matter of law peril was
not reasonably to be apprehended. The barges were stranded. There were pilings nearby. The sudden
storms that arise in the Gulf of Mexico at all times of the year have frequently accounted for cases
before the admiralty courts. See, e. g., Caillouet v. The Jackie G., 196 F.Supp. 951, 953
(E.D.La.1961) The issue of the scope of the peril should be the subject of a full factual inquiry
with the proper standard of law applied thereto. The District Court’s determination that Fort Myers
was contractually obligated to unbeach the barges lacks adequate support in the record. By agreeing
to a modification and continuation of the prior towing contract whereby it would be obligated to
refloat the barges on the beach rather than pick them up at the sea buoy, Fort Myers would have
undertaken a time-consuming and extensive unbeaching operation for the same fee that had been set
for a relatively simple towing job. We are unable to find sufficient evidence to indicate that such
an agreement was made. The fact that a shipowner requests a salvage service and that the salvors in
response furnish it, standing alone, does not create an implied contract so as to defeat a salvage
claim. See Atlantic Towing Co. v. The Caliche, 47 F.Supp. 610, 614 (S.D.Ga.1942). The District Court
also concluded that Fort Myers “forced its services upon the barges” and that it would be grossly
inequitable under the circumstances of this case to require the respondents to pay. Here too, the
facts in the limited record before us are not sufficient to support the court’s conclusion. The
judgment of the court below is reversed and the case remanded for a new trial. . As the Supreme
Court long ago stated in The Sabine, 101 U.S. 384, 25 L.Ed. 982 (1880): Three elements are necessary
to a valid salvage claim: (1) A marine peril. (2) Service voluntarily rendered when not required as
an existing duty or from a special contract. (3) Success in whole or in part, or that the service
rendered contributed to such success. The trial court in the present case determined that the first
two elements were absent.


