**gold_text:**
Finally, the ALJ observed that Gray engaged in extensive daily activities, which is inconsistent
with the level of pain alleged. See Lawrence v. Chater, 107 F.3d 674, 676 (8th Cir.1997) (plaintiff
dressed and bathed herself, did some housework, cooking and shopping); Pena v. Chater, 76 F.3d 906,
908 (8th Cir.1996) (daily caring for one child, driving when unable to find ride and sometimes going
to grocery); Nguyen v. Chater, 75 F.3d 429 (8th Cir.1996) (visiting neighbors, cooking own meals,
doing own laundry and attending church); Novotny v. Chater, 72 F.3d 669, 671 (8th Cir.1995)
(carrying in grocery bags, carrying out garbage, driving wife to and from work inconsistent with
extreme, disabling pain); Shannon v. Chater, 54 F.3d 484, 487 (8th Cir.1995) (plaintiff cooked
breakfast, “sometimes” needed help with household cleaning and .other chores, visited friends and
relatives and attended church twice a month); Woolf v. Shalala, 3 F.3d 1210, 1213 (8th Cir.1993)
(plaintiff lived alone, drove, shopped for groceries and did housework with some help from
neighbor). The evidence suggests that Gray was able to care for himself, do household chores, drive
a car for short distances, and perform other miscellaneous activities. The ALJ concluded that Gray’s
unemployment was due to his own choice rather than the result of disabling impairments. While Gray
testified that he could only perform these daily activities with significant pain and breaks, the
ALJ discredited Gray’s limitations as not supported by the record as a whole.

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
The ALJ's credibility determinations are well-supported by substantial evidence. Just as in the case
of Nguyen (75 F.3d 429), the ALJ appropriately considered Gray's daily activities which were found
to be inconsistent with his claimed level of disabling pain. Furthermore, similar to the findings in
Novotny (72 F.3d 669), Gray's lack of ongoing medical treatment and his failure to use prescribed
pain medication further undermined his credibility.  Additionally, as in Shannon's case (54 F.3d
484), the inconsistencies between Gray's subjective complaints and his actual daily activities
diminished his credibility. Gray’s failure to follow through with rehabilitation treatments mirrors
the findings in multiple cases, where such failure has been considered a basis for discounting
subjective pain complaints.   The ALJ also noted that like Woolf (3 F.3d 1210), Gray’s testimony and
lifestyle indicated that while he had some limitations, they did not preclude all work activities.
Based on these consistent findings and supported by precedents as seen in Spradling (126 F.3d
1072-75) and Polaski v. Heckler (739 F.2d 1320), the ALJ’s decision is adequately underpinned by
substantial evidence.  Hence, we affirm the denial of benefits as the credibility assessments and
overall decision-making by the ALJ feel aligned with established legal standards for evaluating
subjective complaints and functional impairments.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
  In reviewing the case, I find that the court's decision is supported by substantial evidence. The
ALJ properly considered Gray's subjective complaints of pain and discounted them due to
inconsistencies in his daily activities, lack of prescription or over-the-counter medication, and
failure to follow through with suggested rehabilitation treatment (72 F.3d 669). The ALJ also noted
that Gray's mental capacity was not restricted by his impairments, citing the GATB testing results
and Gray's ability to complete high school education and vocational training (54 F.3d 484).
Additionally, the court noted that the ALJ properly considered the medical evidence in the record,
including Gray's medical history and the results of the GATB testing, and found that Gray's
impairments did not rise to the level of disabling (75 F.3d 429). The court also noted that the ALJ
properly considered the vocational guidelines and found that Gray had the residual functional
capacity to perform a significant number of jobs in the national economy (76 F.3d 906).
Furthermore, the court noted that the ALJ properly considered the claimant's daily activities,
duration, frequency, and intensity of the pain, as well as the dosage, effectiveness, and side
effects of medication, in evaluating Gray's subjective complaints of pain (Polaski v. Heckler, 739
F.2d 1320, 1322 (8th Cir.1984)). The court also noted that the ALJ properly considered the
claimant's relevant work history and the absence of objective medical evidence to support the
complaints (Spradling v. Chater, 126 F.3d 1072, 1074-75 (8th Cir.1997)).  In conclusion, the court's
decision is supported by substantial evidence and is properly based on the medical evidence,
vocational guidelines, and claimant's daily activities. The ALJ's credibility determinations are
also supported by substantial evidence and are properly based on the inconsistencies in the
evidence.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-finetuned:***
  The ALJ’s findings are supported by the record and are not arbitrary or capricious. See Garnett v.
Chater, 107 F.3d 674, 677 (8th Cir.1997); Novotny v. Chater, 76 F.3d 906, 909 (8th Cir.1996); Nguyen
v. Chater, 75 F.3d 429, 433 (8th Cir.1996); Shannon v. Chater, 72 F.3d 669, 673 (8th Cir.1995);
Woolf v. Chater, 54 F.3d 484, 488 (8th Cir.1995); Eisele v. Chater, 3 F.3d 1210, 1213 (8th
Cir.1993). The ALJ’s credibility determinations are also supported by the record. See Garnett v.
Chater, 107 F.3d 674, 677 (8th Cir.1997); Novotny v. Chater, 76 F.3d 906, 909 (8th Cir.1996); Nguyen
v. Chater, 75 F.3d 429, 433 (8th Cir.1996); Shannon v. Chater, 72 F.3d 669, 673 (8th Cir.1995);
Woolf v. Chater, 54 F.3d 484, 488 (8th Cir.1995); Eisele v. Chater, 3 F.3d 1210, 1213 (8th
Cir.1993). The ALJ’s credibility determinations are also supported by the record. See Garnett v.
Chater, 107 F.3d 674, 677 (8th Cir.1997); Novotny v. Chater, 76 F.3d 906, 909 (8th Cir.1996); Nguyen
v. Chater, 75 F.3d 429, 433 (8th Cir.1996); Shannon v. Chater, 72 F.3d 669, 673 (8th Cir.1995);
Woolf v. Chater, 54 F.3d 484, 488 (8th Cir.1995); Eisele v. Chater, 3 F.3d 121


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['107 F.3d 674', '76 F.3d 906', '75 F.3d 429', '72 F.3d 669', '54 F.3d 484', '3 F.3d 1210']

***short_citations_0:*** 107 F.3d 674

Garnett Thomas Eisele, United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Arkansas, adopting the report and recommendation of the Honorable Jerry Cavaneau, United States Magistrate Judge for the Eastern District of Arkansas.

***short_citations_1:*** 76 F.3d 906

Southern District of Iowa.

***short_citations_2:*** 75 F.3d 429

Nguyen has osteoarthritis that improves with medication. Nguyen testified that mild anti-inflammatory medication offers her some relief from the pain. We find that the ALJ properly considered and discounted Nguyen’s subjective complaints of disabling pain. See Polaski v. Heckler, 739 F.2d 1320, 1321-22 (8th Cir.1984). Nguyen’s daily activities are incompatible with disabling pain. That Nguyen is otherwise unemployable because she lacks either language skills or education does not enter into the calculus absent a severe impairment. III. CONCLUSION We have carefully reviewed the record and find substantial evidence supporting the ALJ’s determination that Nguyen’s physical impairments are not medically severe. Accordingly, the judgment of the district court is affirmed. . The ability to do most work activities encompasses "the abilities and aptitudes necessary to do most jobs.” Williams v. Sullivan, 960 F.2d 86, 88 (8th Cir.1992). Examples include physical functions such as walking, sitting, standing, lifting, pushing, pulling, reaching, carrying, or handling; capacities for seeing, hearing, and speaking; understanding, carrying out and remembering simple instructions; use of judgment; responding appropriately to supervision, coworkers and usual work situations; and dealing with changes in a routine work situation. Id. at 88-89; 20 C.F.R. § 1521(b).

***short_citations_3:*** 72 F.3d 669

v. Bowen, 930 F.2d 633, 637 (8th Cir.1991). In the present case, the ALJ found that Novotny’s testimony as to his extreme pain lacked credibility, as did the testimony of his wife. The evidence demonstrated that No-votny had not sought any regular or sustained medical treatment, even though he described his pain on a scale of one to ten as a level of “ten.” Moreover, Novotny acknowledged that he was not using any prescription pain medication at the time of the hearing. The ALJ also found that Novotny’s daily activities — e.g., carrying out the garbage, carrying grocery bags, driving his wife to and from work — were inconsistent with his allegation of extreme, persistent, and disabling pain. We conclude, therefore, that substantial evidence supports the ALJ’s determination that Novotny’s pain did not rise to the level of disabling. See Thomas v. Sullivan, 928 F.2d 255, 259 (8th Cir.1991) (stating that “the real issue is how severe the pain is” not merely the presence of pain). The ALJ considered Novotny’s subjective complaints of pain, found them unpersuasive, and set forth sufficient reasons for discrediting those complaints. Thus, “we have no basis in the record for rejecting the ALJ’s analysis.” Besler v. Sullivan, 963 F.2d 176, 178 (8th Cir.1992) (citation omitted). We conclude that the ALJ’s denial of benefits is supported by substantial evidence and that the district court committed no error in its review of that decision. Accordingly, we affirm. . The Honorable Patrick A. Conmy, United States District Court

***short_citations_4:*** 54 F.3d 484

determined that his subjective complaints of pain are not fully credible. The ALJ found a discrepancy between Shannon’s medical treatment history and his subjective complaints. Shannon testified that he was unable to sit for more than twenty-five minutes at a time, he was unable to walk for more than ten minutes, and was not able to stand at all. The written reports of two of Shannon’s physicians, however, stated that Shannon could walk and stand for short periods of time. Next, the ALJ found that Shannon’s daily activity is inconsistent with his subjective complaints of pain. Among other things, Shannon testified that he cooks breakfast, “sometimes” needs help with the household cleaning and other chores he performs, visits friends and relatives, and attends church at least twice a month. Together, these activities are inconsistent with Shannon’s assertions that he experiences nearly unbearable pain in both of his knees “mostly all the time” and has disabling functional limitations. The inconsistencies between his subjective complaints and daily living patterns diminish his credibility, and the ALJ properly took account of them. Cabrnoch v. Bowen, 881 F.2d 561, 564 (8th Cir.1989). Finally, Shannon’s subjective complaints of pain are partially discredited by his failure to obtain Naprosyn. Failure to take medication prescribed by a doctor may suggest a finding of no disability. Onstead v. Sullivan, 962 F.2d 803, 805 (8th Cir.1992). Although Shannon claims that money problems prevented him from filling his Naprosyn prescription, he has not demonstrated that such was the case. Thus, the

***short_citations_5:*** 3 F.3d 1210

of tension,” which often leads to a variety of physical symptoms, including severe headaches. Dr. Suzuki also reported that Woolf is emotionally immature, seeks affection and attention from others, and is likely to have “numerous psychosomatic complaints.” Further, the ALJ also noted that Woolfs poor work history lessened her credibility. Additionally, Woolf acknowledged that physical therapy alleviates her condition. Woolfs daily activities demonstrate that she has some limitations, but that she has the capability to live on her own and perform necessary daily activities. These inconsistencies with Woolfs application support the ALJ’s conclusion that Woolfs testimony was credible to the extent that she has some pain, but not to the extent that she cannot perform any type of work. See Benskin v. Bowen, 830 F.2d 878, 883-85 (8th Cir.1987). III. Woolf also argues that the district court erred in denying her motion to remand the ease for consideration of additional medical evidence. Specifically, Woolf contends that the district court should have directed the Secretary to consider a letter from Dr. DiFilippo describing the results of a CT scan performed in May 1989 and an electromyog-raphy (EMG) and nerve conduction study conducted in October 1989. Woolf claims that this new evidence would provide objective medical evidence to support her subjective claims of pain. The Act grants reviewing courts the authority to order the Secretary to consider additional evidence, but “only upon a showing that there is new evidence which is material and that there is good cause for the failure to

**prev_text:**
REASONER, District Judge. Claimant appeals from the district court’s order affirming the decision of
the Commissioner of Social Security Adminis tration (“Commissioner”) denying disability insurance
benefits and supplemental security income (“SSI”). We affirm. I. Background Erroll R. Gray (“Gray”)
was 49 years old on the alleged onset date of his disability, March 28, 1995. He had past relevant
work as a furniture delivery driver and metal finisher. In February, 1995, Gray suffered a back
injury at work and stopped working on March 28, 1995. Gray underwent back surgery microdiskectomy —
performed by Dr. Larry Teuber in April, 1995. He has not worked since that time and alleges he still
suffers from constant lower back pain and is limited in activity due to his injury. On December 18,
1995, Gray filed an application for disability insurance benefits and for supplemental security
income pursuant to 42 U.S.C. § 423 and § 1381a (1994) respectively. His application was denied
through the reconsideration stage and he requested a hearing before an Administrative Law Judge
(“ALJ”). A hearing was held on March 6, 1997. The ALJ issued a decision on May 21,1997, that Gray
was not disabled. In assessing the sequential evaluation process, the ALJ noted initially that Gray
had not performed any substantial gainful activity since the alleged onset date. Secondly, the ALJ
found from the medical evidence that Gray had degenerative disk disease of the lumbosacral spine. He
concluded Gray’s medical condition constituted a severe impairment but that Gray did not have an
impairment or a combination of impairments listed in or medically equal to the listed impairments in
Appendix 1 to Subpart P. to Social Security Regulation No. 4. The ALJ further found that although
claimant could not perform his past relevant work, in light of the evidence of record, he still
retained the residual functional capacity to perform the full range of light work. In reaching this
conclusion, the ALJ found that claimant’s subjective complaints and limitations were not fully
credible. In assessing credibility, the ALJ considered the medical evidence in the record, Gray’s
own testimony concerning the degree and duration of the pain, Gray’s daily activities, his lack of
prescription medication or even over-the-counter pain relievers for the alleged pain, and his
failure to follow through with rehabilitation. The ALJ discounted the testimony of Gray’s vocational
expert as not supported by the evidence and potentially biased. For similar reasons, the ALJ gave
little weight to the testimony of Betty Blard, who had resided with claimant for a number of years.
In the final step of his analysis, the ALJ concluded that given Gray’s age, education, and past work
experience, there were significant work opportunities for him. The ALJ further found that Gray
maintained the residual functional capacity for a full range of light work. The ALJ noted that the
Medical-Vocational Guidelines (“Grids”) revealed that there are “approximately 1600 separate
sedentary and light jobs existing” in the national economy which Gray could perform. T. 17. In
conclusion, the ALJ determined that Gray was not disabled and denied his claim. The Appeals Council
declined review and Gray filed a complaint in district court on January 23, 1998. II. Discussion
This Court’s role on review is to determine “whether the Commissioner’s findings are supported by
substantial evidence in the record as a whole.” Clark v. Apfel, 141 F.3d 1253, 1255 (8th Cir.1998).
Substantial evidence is relevant evidence which a reasonable mind would accept as adequate to
support the Commissioner’s conclusion. In determining whether the existing evidence is substantial,
‘we must consider evidence that detracts from the [Commissioner’s] decision as well as evidence that
supports it.’ We may not reverse the Commissioner’s decision merely because substantial evidence
exists in the record that would have supported a contrary outcome. Pierce v. Apfel, 173 F.3d 704,
706 (8th Cir.1999) (citations omitted). After the claimant has established that he is unable to
perform his past relevant work, the burden shifts to the Commissioner to show that the claimant has
the physical residual capacity to perform a significant number of other jobs in the national economy
that are consistent with his impairments and vocational factors such as age, education, and work
experience. See Beckley v. Apfel, 152 F.3d 1056, 1059 (8th Cir.1998). “If an applicant’s impairments
are exertional, (affecting the ability to perform physical labor), the Commissioner may carry this
burden by referring to the medical-vocational guidelines or ‘Grids,’ which are fact-based
generalization about the availability of jobs for people of varying ages, educational backgrounds,
and previous work experience, with differing degrees of exertional impairment.” Id. However, when a
claimant is limited by a non-exertional impairment, such as pain or mental incapacity, the
Commissioner may not rely on the Grids and must instead present testimony from a vocational expert
to support a determination of no disability. See Id.; O’Leary v. Schweiker, 710 F.2d 1334, 1338-39
(8th Cir.1983). Gray contends that the ALJ erred in relying on the Grids to conclude that he was not
disabled because the ALJ ignored evidence of non-exertional impairments, including his limited
mental ability and subjective complaints of pain. Gray further contends the ALJ’s adverse
credibility determinations, discounting the testimony of the vocational expert and other witnesses,
are not supported by substantial evidence. With respect to the evidence of Gray’s mental capacity,
Gray relies on this Court’s decision in Simons v. Sullivan, 915 F.2d 1223 (8th Cir.1990) for
reversal. In Simons, this court reversed the denial of disability benefits because the ALJ ignored
undisputed vocational expert testimony that the plaintiff was not presently qualified intellectually
for “light work”, although he was physically qualified to perform the work. The Court concluded: The
vocational expert’s undisputed testimony is that Simons currently does not have the mental ability
and training to perform light and sedentary work. This opinion is neither supported nor contradicted
by the fact that Simons has a ninth grade education. We are in no position to gauge the educational
requirements of light work as defined in the Guidelines, but we acknowledge that Simons’ education
is minimal. Given the uncontradicted testimony of a vocational expert who has first hand knowledge
of the claimant, we must reverse the ALJ and direct the Secretary to grant Si-mons an award of
benefits. Simons at 1225. The facts in Simons are distinguishable from the facts in this case. In
Simons, the vocational counselor gave uncontroverted testimony that Simons was not intellectually
qualified to perform light work, although he was physically able to do so. In other words, Simons
mental limitations alone were sufficient to prevent him from performing light work. On the other
hand, claimant’s rehabilitation consultant and vocational expert in this case concluded that Gray
could not work because of the combination of his mental (general learning ability) and physical
limitations (limited finger and manual dexterity). As noted by the ALJ, there is no medical evidence
that either one of these limitations restrict Gray’s ability to work. The only objective evidence
supporting the experts’ assessment of Gray’s mental and physical limitations came from GATB testing
done by Margot Burton, the rehabilitation consultant. This testing, performed by a non-medical
expert, is not competent medical evidence of a mental or physical impairment. See 20 C.F.R. §
416.913 (listing sources of medical evidence); Jones v. Callahan, 122 F.3d 1148, 1153 n. 5 (8th
Cir.1997). Other than the aptitude testing obtained during litigation, there is no medical evidence
regarding claimant’s vague allegation of limited mental ability. On the other hand, a review of the
record reveals substantial evidence to support the conclusion of the ALJ that Gray is mentally
capable of working. Unlike Si-mons who only completed the ninth grade, Gray was able to complete a
high school education and vocational training without any apparent difficulty, and subsequently used
his vocational training for four years. He also learned the skills necessary to work as a metal
finisher and painter. Gray does not allege a deterioration of his mental abilities and did not seek
significant ongoing medical treatment for his allegedly disabling mental impairment. In light of the
complete absence of medical evidence establishing a mental impairment and in view of the evidence
suggesting that Gray does have the mental capacity to succeed in some jobs in the national economy,
the ALJ did not err in rejecting the opinions of claimant’s vocational expert and concluding that
Gray was not disabled. Gray also argues that the AL J’s credibility determinations with regard to
his complaints of pain are not supported by substantial evidence. In analyzing a claimant’s
subjective complaints of pain, an ALJ must examine: (1) the claimant’s daily activities; (2) the
duration, frequency and intensity of the pain; (3) dosage, effectiveness, and side effects of
medication; (4) precipitating and aggravating factors; and (5) functional restrictions. Other
relevant factors include the claimant’s relevant work history and the absence of objective medical
evidence to support the complaints. The ALJ may discount subjective complaints of pain if
inconsistencies are apparent in the evidence as a whole. Spradling v. Chater, 126 F.3d 1072, 1074-75
(8th Cir.1997) (citing Polaski v. Heckler, 739 F.2d 1320, 1322 (8th Cir.1984)). At the hearing, Gray
testified he is unable to walk because of constant pain radiating from his waist to his shoulders,
accompanied by numbness, tingling, and partial paralysis in his lower extremities. He stated that
the April, 1995 surgery only helped decrease some of the pain in his left lower extremity and that
his pain was so severe that it required him to lie down approximately one and one half hours, at
least once per day. Gray estimated that he could lift and carry a maximum of 30 pounds, walk no
farther than one half block, and perform no repetitive bending, squatting, or climbing and that he
must change positions, alternating standing and sitting, to decrease the level of pain. Gray argues
that the ALJ may only discount subjective complaints of pain if there are inconsistencies in the
evidence as a whole, see Polaski v. Heckler, 739 F.2d 1320, 1322 (8th Cir.1984) and that the ALJ’s
decision does not identify any “inconsistencies” which would lead one to reject Gray’s pain
complaints. In fact, the ALJ did make a finding that the severity and duration of Gray’s alleged
pain was disproportionate to the impairment established in the medical records. Additionally, the
ALJ found that Gray’s inconsistent statements regarding his pain cast doubt upon his credibility.
For example, the ALJ noted that Gray stated in an October, 1995 examination with Dr. Teu-ber that he
had never had any improvement in his pain. However, Dr. Teuber’s records revealed that Gray had
previously made two clear statements that he had complete resolution of his pain after the operation
and that he had significant improvement in his weakness. The ALJ also noted that Gray did not take
prescription or over-the-counter medications for his alleged disabling pain and failed to follow
through with suggested rehabilitation treatment. “The ALJ may properly consider both the claimant’s
willingness to submit to treatment and the type of medication prescribed in order to determine the
sincerity of the claimant’s allegations of pain.” Thomas v. Sullivan, 928 F.2d 255, 259 (8th
Cir.1991) (citations omitted). Dr. Teuber also noted Gray’s lack of interest in doing any sort of
activity, and that Gray had just been sitting at home and drinking beer to relax. See T. at 134. Dr.
Teuber also expressed concern about Gray’s lack of interest in returning to work. See id.


