**gold_text:**
After the steps above outlined are taken and the assessment is made, the receiver may then bring
actions at law against the various subscribers for the stock; and such is the proper course. Tardy’s
Smith on Receivers, p. 903; 14a C. J., § 3245; Kennedy v. Gibson, 8 Wall. 498,19 L. Ed. 476; Sanger
v. Upton, 91 U. S. 56, 23 L. Ed. 220; Glenn v. Sumner, 132 U. S. 152, 10 S. Ct. 41, 33 L. Ed. 301;
Kelley v. Gill, 245 U. S. 116, 38 S. Ct. 38, 62 L. Ed. 185; Fidelity Tr. & Safe Dep. Co. v. Archer,
179 F. 32, 103 C. C. A. 16; Rosoff v. Gilbert Transp. Co., supra; Clinton. Mining & Mineral Co. v.
Cochran, 247 F. 449, 159 C. C A. 503; Barkalow v. Totten, 53 N. J. Eq. 573, 32 A. 2; Hood v.
McNaughton, 54 N. J. Law, 425, 24 A. 497; McDermott v. Woodhouse, 87 N. J. Eq. 615, 101 A. 375;
Smith, Recr., v. Johnson, 57 Ohio St. 486, 49 N. E. 693.

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
Looking at the present bill, it appears that the receiver is attempting to circumvent the
established legal framework which explicitly requires actions to be brought in a certain manner.
According to the reference cases 8 Wall. 498 and 19 L. Ed. 476, the receiver, as the statutory
assignee, holds the proper authority to institute suits both at law and in equity, representing the
association and creditors alike without needing to make either a party to the suit.  Furthermore, as
highlighted in 38 S. Ct. 38 and 62 L. Ed. 185, the liability of each stockholder constitutes a
separate controversy, reducing the necessity for equity jurisdiction. The courts have consistently
held, as noted in 8 Wall. 505 and 179 F. 32, that the receiver must proceed through appropriate
legal channels rather than seeking to enforce stock subscriptions in this manner.  Notably, in 23 L.
Ed. 220, similar principles were applied, emphasizing the requirement of proceeding through
statutory methods rather than ancillary suits. The court has repeatedly insisted on adherence to
legal forms and prescribed remedies, making the dismissal of the current bill consistent with
established precedents.  In summation, the dismissal aligns with the necessity to respect the
statutory roles and jurisdictional boundaries, reinforcing that the proper course for the receiver
is to petition within the existing receivership suit. This method ensures procedural compliance and
equitable resolution without overstepping the bounds of legal practice.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
  The case at hand involves a receiver's attempt to enforce the personal liability of stockholders
in a insolvent corporation. The receiver brought a bill in equity against the stockholders, seeking
to establish the amount due on their unpaid stock subscriptions and to require each stockholder to
pay a proportional part of the unpaid balance. The court dismissed the bill, citing the decision in
Carey v. McMillan (C. C. A.) 289 F. 380, which held that the receiver's suit was premature and that
the stockholders should be required to bring separate actions at law to enforce their claims.  In
considering the present suit, the court noted that there were significant differences between the
allegations in the bill and those in the McMillan suit. For example, the present bill omitted
allegations about the notes given by stock subscribers to the corporation, and it did not state the
amount of uncollectable notes or uncollectable stock subscriptions. The court also noted that the
present bill did not explain the differences in the statements of facts in the two bills.  Despite
these differences, the court held that the decision in the McMillan suit controlled the present
case. The court found that the receiver's suit was premature and that the stockholders should be
required to bring separate actions at law to enforce their claims. The court also noted that the
stockholders were not necessary formal parties to the receivership suit, and that they were
represented by the corporation itself.  In reaching its decision, the court relied on several
precedents, including Kennedy v. Gibson, 8 Wall. 498, 19 L. Ed. 476, which held that the liability
of stockholders is several and not joint, and that the limit of their liability is the par value of
the stock held by each one. The court also cited Hall v. U. S. Ins. Co., 5 Gill, 484, which held
that a receiver appointed by the comptroller of the currency has the power to institute proceedings
against the stockholders of an insolvent bank.  In conclusion, the court's decision in the present
case is consistent with the decision in Carey v. McMillan, and it is also supported by the
precedents cited above. The court's holding that the receiver's suit is premature and that the
stockholders should be required to bring separate actions at law to enforce their claims is
reasonable and consistent with the principles of equity and fairness.


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['8 Wall. 498', '19 L. Ed. 476', '23 L. Ed. 220', '38 S. Ct. 38', '62 L. Ed. 185', '179 F. 32']

***short_citations_0:*** 8 Wall. 498

seek their remedy through the comptroller in the mode prescribed by the statute; they cannot proceed directly in their own names against the stockholders or debtors of the bank. The receiver is the statutory assignee of the association, and is the proper party to institute all suits; they may be brought both at law and in equity, in his name, or in the name of the association for his use. He represents both the creditors and the association, and when he sues in his own name it is not necessary to make either a party to the suit. The 59th section of the act of February 25th, 1863, provides that all suits by or against such associations may be brought in the proper courts of the United States or of the State. The 57th section of the act of 1864, relates to .the same subject, and revises and enlarges the provisions of the 59th section of the preceding act. In the latter, the word “by” in respect to such suits is dropped. The omission was doubtless accidental. It is not to be supposed that Congress intended to exclude the. associations from suing in the courts where they can be sued. The difference in the language of the two sections is not such as to warrant-the conclusion that it was.intended to change the rule prescribed by the act of. 1864. Such suits may still be brought by the associations in the courts of the United States. If this be not the

***short_citations_1:*** 19 L. Ed. 476

seek their remedy through the comptroller in the mode prescribed by the statute; they cannot proceed directly in their own names against the stockholders or debtors of the bank. The receiver is the statutory assignee of the association, and is the proper party to institute all suits; they may be brought both at law and in equity, in his name, or in the name of the association for his use. He represents both the creditors and the association, and when he sues in his own name it is not necessary to make either a party to the suit. The 59th section of the act of February 25th, 1863, provides that all suits by or against such associations may be brought in the proper courts of the United States or of the State. The 57th section of the act of 1864, relates to .the same subject, and revises and enlarges the provisions of the 59th section of the preceding act. In the latter, the word “by” in respect to such suits is dropped. The omission was doubtless accidental. It is not to be supposed that Congress intended to exclude the. associations from suing in the courts where they can be sued. The difference in the language of the two sections is not such as to warrant-the conclusion that it was.intended to change the rule prescribed by the act of. 1864. Such suits may still be brought by the associations in the courts of the United States. If this be not the

***short_citations_2:*** 23 L. Ed. 220

If they choose to rest supine until cases against them like this are on trial, they must take the consequences. Not having spoken before, they cannot be permitted to speak then, especially to make an objection which looks rather to the embarrassment and delay than to the right and justice of the case. A different rule would be pregnant with mischief and confusion. Hall v. U. S. Ins. Co., 5. Gill, 484; Sagory v. Dubois, 3 Sandf. Ch. 510. This court has applied the same rule to an order made by the comptroller of the currency, under the fiftieth section of the National Bank Act, appointing a receiver, and directing him to proceed to make collections from the stockholders of an insolvent bank. Kennedy v. Gibson and Others, 8 Wall. 505. In that case it was said, “It is .for the comptroller, to decide when it is necessary to institute proceedings against the stockholders to enforce their persons,1 liability, and whether the whole or any part, and, if a part, how much, should be collected. These questions are referred to his judgment and discretion, and his determination is conclusive. The stockholders cannot controvert it. Its validity is not to be questioned in the litigation that may ensue. He may make it at such time as he may deem proper, and upon such data as shall be satisfactory to him.” This principle was applied also in Cadle, Receiver, v. Baker & Co., 20 Wall. 650. It was competent for the court

***short_citations_3:*** 38 S. Ct. 38

these stockholders, although a very large number of actions at law would be required to make collection of the balances unpaid on the stock. There was no common issue between these alleged stockholders and the corporation; and the liability of each would have presented a separate controversy unconnected with that of any other. Thus elements essential to jurisdiction in equity to avoid multiplicity of actions at law by the corporations were lacking. St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. McKnight, 244 U. S. 368, 375. That lack is not supplied by the assignment to the trustee. No other property has become involved. No new issues have been raised. The order of the court of bankruptcy that subscriptions be paid up was not a condition precedent to the existence of the causes of action against the several stockholders; and it added nothing to the rights which had already passed to the trustee. For him., also, the appropriate remedy was a separate action at law against each stockholder. The amendment of 1910 to § 47 of the Bankruptcy Act did not confer new means of collecting ordinary claims due the bankrupt; and the order directing the trustee “to institute a suit in equity” was impotent to confer equity jurisdiction. But even if there had been equity jurisdiction, the suit could not have been brought in the federal court. The cause of action sued on would still have been the broken promise of the individual stockholder to pay the balance on

***short_citations_4:*** 62 L. Ed. 185

these stockholders, although a very large number of actions at law would be required to make collection of the balances unpaid on the stock. There was no common issue between these alleged stockholders and the corporation; and the liability of each would have presented a separate controversy unconnected with that of any other. Thus elements essential to jurisdiction in equity to avoid multiplicity of actions at law by the corporations were lacking. St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. McKnight, 244 U. S. 368, 375. That lack is not supplied by the assignment to the trustee. No other property has become involved. No new issues have been raised. The order of the court of bankruptcy that subscriptions be paid up was not a condition precedent to the existence of the causes of action against the several stockholders; and it added nothing to the rights which had already passed to the trustee. For him., also, the appropriate remedy was a separate action at law against each stockholder. The amendment of 1910 to § 47 of the Bankruptcy Act did not confer new means of collecting ordinary claims due the bankrupt; and the order directing the trustee “to institute a suit in equity” was impotent to confer equity jurisdiction. But even if there had been equity jurisdiction, the suit could not have been brought in the federal court. The cause of action sued on would still have been the broken promise of the individual stockholder to pay the balance on

***short_citations_5:*** 179 F. 32

stock and the enforcement of an assessment less than his total liability, such as is disclosed in the present case. It is true that in Kennedy v. Gibson, 8 Wall. 498, 19 L. Ed. 476, which was a suit by a receiver of an insolvent national bank, appointed under the national banking act of June 3, 1864, c. 106, 13 Stat. 99, to enforce the personal liability of some of the stockholders, the court said: “The liability of the stockholders is several and not joint. The limit of their liability is the par of the stock held by each one. Where the whole amount is sought to be recovered the proceeding must be at law. Where less is required the proceeding may be in equity, and in such case an interlocutory decree may be taken for contribution, and the case may stand over for the further action of the court — if such action should subsequently prove to be necessary — until the full amount of the liability is exhausted.” This statement was unnecessary to the determination of the question before the court, as the bill sought to enforce the full statutory liability, and the case was decided on the ground that it did not appear that the comptroller of the currency had taken any action touching the enforcement of the personal liability of the stockholders. -Further, the pasáage must be read in the light of the law and facts there involved, and when so read is inapplicable to the

**prev_text:**
BOOTH, Circuit Judge. This is an ap- . peal from a decree dismissing a bill, called an ancillary
bill, brought by the receiver of the Midland Packing Company against a large number of defendants,
to enforce collection from them on their alleged unpaid stock subscriptions in said company. A brief
outline of the facts leading up to the present bill is as follows: The Midland Packing Company was
organized under the laws of the state of Iowa in 1918 to carry on a general meat-packing business.
The original authorized capital stock was $3,500,000. By an amendment to its articles, this was
increased to $8,000,000. About $3,000,00 of the stock was purchased and paid for; $5,000,000 more
was subscribed for, on which about $2,000,000 was paid, leaving approximately $3,000,000 unpaid on
the stock subscriptions. In connection with these subscriptions for stock," cash payments were
generally made for part of the purchase price, and promissory notes were given for the balance.
These-notes to an amount of more than $1,000,000 were negotiated by the Midland Packing Company,
either by way of sale or by way-of pledge, and to a very large amount they are still outstanding.
The company built a. packing plant at Sioux City, Iowa, at a cost of over $3,000,000. In April,
1920, Peter Hegnes, a citizen of South Dakota, brought a suit in equity in the federal court for the
Northern District of Iowa against the Midland Packing Company, alleging that he was a stockholder in
the company; that the company had. by fraud secured promissory notes from. him and from many others
for the purchase of stock in the company; that the company was insolvent or in imminent danger of
insolvency; that it had no funds on hand for a working capital. He prayed for a rescission of the
contract of purchase of the stock, for an injunction against the sale of the promissory notes given
by him, for a receiver for the company, and for general relief. A general receiver was appointed' by
the court, and possession was taken by him of all the assets of the company for the purpose of
winding up its affairs as an insolvent corporation. The receivership thus inaugurated still
continues, the assets of the company have been largely collected, claims have been filed and
allowed, and the affairs of the company generally administered. In 1922, the receiver, McMillan,
commenced a suit in the court of his appointment, called an ancillary suit, against a large number
of defendants, divided by the bill into two classes, stockholder defendants and creditor defendants.
The bill alleged that the stockholder defendants had each entered into a contract for the purchase
of stock in the Midland Packing Company; “that at the time of entering into said eon-tracts each of
the said stockholder defendants executed and delivered to the Midland Packing Company his promissory
note or notes for the unpaid balance of the stock so subscribed for by him, and that a large part of
the notes so executed and received by the said company were indorsed by it, and sold and
transferred, in the due course of business, to the creditor defendants, * * * who are now the owners
and holders thereof in due course.” The hill further alleged that part of the notes were held by the
creditor defendants as collateral security for money loaned to the Midland Packing Company; that
claims aggregating $2,173,-477 had been filed against the company in the receivership proceedings
and had been approved; that the total claims filed amounted approximately to $3,400,270; that the
total amount of unpaid notes on the subscriptions to. the stock of the company was $3,062,650, of
which amount about 50 per cent, was uncollectable; that the plant of the company could not be sold
for more than 50 per cent, of its actual appraised value, $2,522,931. The prayer was “that the
amount due and owing from each of the said stockholder defendants, on their several contracts,
referred to in this bill of complaint, be ascertained and established by the court, for the several
amounts, as shown by Schedule A, or for, such amounts as the court shall find to be due from them,
and that the judgment and decree of this court be rendered against e'ach of said defendants for the
amount so found to be due from them, and that the assets be marshaled and equitably distributed, so
as to equalize the loss among the' stockholders, and for such further decree in that hehalf as shall
preserve the rights of all the parties interested therein,- * * * and that each and all of the said
creditor defendants be required to bring into court and surrender to the receiver each and all of
the notes so held by them, or either or any of them, to the end that the notes may be fully
accounted for and b& surrendered to the stockholder defendants upon payment thereof, or surrendered
for cancellation in connection with any judgment or decree that may be entered herein against them,
and the plaintiff prays such other and further relief as the court may deem just and equitable in
the premises.” It was held by this court (Carey v. McMillan, 289 F. 380) that thei hill should be
dismissed. The court in its opinion said: “To sum np: The demand made against each defendant
being/purely legal, each demand being independent of every other, the amount demanded against each
being the full amount unpaid on the stock, no accounting being necessary, no contribution being
necessary, community of interest of the defendants in all the important questions of law and fact
involved not being shown and being highly improbable, we are of opinion that the bare multiplicity
of suits is not sufficient to give the court jurisdiction to entertain the present bill in equity.
The plain and adequate remedy at law open to the receiver is to bring ancillary actions at law in
the federal court against the several defendants whose notes he holds. When the pleadings are made
up, if it is found feasible and desirable to consolidate the suits into one or several groups for
trial, the power of the court is ample for that purpose. The convenience of the parties can thus he
served, the cost of the litigation need not by appreciably greater, and the right of trial by jury
will be preserved.” In 1923 a suit in equity was brought in the same court by John A. Reagan, as
trustee, against the same defendants (stock subscribers) as in the McMillan hill. Reagan alleged in
his bill that he was a judgment creditor, having obtained a judgment in the state court of Iowa upon
the indorsement of certain promissory notes by the Midland Packing Company which were made to it by
subscribers to its stock; that execution had been returned unsatisfied; that the company was
insolvent; that claims existed against the company, of th& same class as plaintiff’s claim,
amounting to more than $1,750,000; that there were other claims, of a class inferior, amounting to
more than $2,000,000; that the receiver had sold the plant and other assets, and had collected
sufficient proceeds to pay 15 per cent, to 20 per cent, to creditors of the same class as plaintiff.
■ The prayer of the bill was “for an accounting to fix and determine the assets and liabilities of
the Midland Packing Company and the amount of its unpaid stock subscriptions, and that the court
shall fix and determine the percentage of his unpaid stock subscriptions which each defendant
stockholder, shall pay, and the amount of the fair and equitable contribution of each defendant
herein for the payment of the debts of said corporation, and that by said decree judgment shall be
rendered and entered against each defendant for a sufficient amount of his unpaid stock
subscriptions to in the aggregate pay the claim of this plaintiff against the Midland Packing
Company, and those of all other creditors similarly situated, together with interest and its costs
and disbursement^ in this action, and that it may have decree for such other and further relief as
shall seem just and equitable in the premises.” The court below dismissed the bill, on the ground
that, since there was a receiver already in possession of the assets of the company and
administering the same, the suit by Reagan would be an interference with the possession ■ of the
court, and therefore could not be maintained. 298 F. 500. This judgment of dismissal was affirmed by
this court in Reagan v. Midland Packing Co., 8 F. (2d) 954, decision filed September 30, 1925. In
1924 after the dismissal of the Reagan suit in the lower court, the present suit was brought by the
receiver against the same defendants (stock subscribers) as in the McMillan and Reagan bills. The
bill alleges the history'of the company and the issue of its stock as above set forth, the
insolvency of the company, the appointment of the receiver, and the administration by him of the
assets of the company, the collection of proceeds sufficient to pay 15 per cent, to 20 per cent, to
general creditors, whose claims have been allowed, and the existence of the unpaid stock
subscriptions. The prayer is substantially the same as in the Reagan bill above quoted. The present
bill was dismissed by the trial court. It is claimed by the appellees that the decision in Carey v.
McMillan (C. C. A.) 289 F. 380, is decisive of the present suit,, and that the question of the
inability of the receiver to maintain the present suit is res ad judicata. Appellant claims that
there are radical differences between the allegations of the bill in the McMillan suit and those in
the present bill, and that the decision in the former suit is in no way opposed to the maintenance
of the present one. There are, it is true, numerous differences between, the bill in the McMillan
suit and the present bill. Some of them consist of different allegations in reference to the same
subject-matter; some of them consist in omitting altogether from the present bill' allegations found
in the McMillan bill. The parties defendant are not strictly tlie same. In the McMillan suit not
only the subscribers to stock were made defendants, but also-the holders of notes given by such
subscribers to the Midland Packing Company for the purchase of stock, and which notes had been
negotiated by the Midland Packing Company, either by a sale outright or by being pledged as
collateral to debts of the Midland Packing Company. In the present suit these creditor defendants
have been omitted. In the present suit there is an additional defendant, the Midland Packing
Company. In the McMillan suit it was alleged that claims had been filed in “the amount of
$3,-400,270, and that claims had been approved to the amount of $2,173,477. In the present bill, the
claims approved are stated to-amount to $1,760,000, a difference of $413,r 000. No explanation is
given in the bill' of this difference in. amount of approved claims. In the McMillan bill it is
stated that notes had been given in part payment for the stock subscribed by the defendant
stockholders. No such allegation is found in the present bill. The present suit is based, in theory
at least, not upon the notes,, but upon the stock subscriptions. In the McMillan 'bill it was
alleged that of the notes outstanding, given by stock subscribers in Iowa, $247,876 were held and
owned by the receiver, whieh left upwards of $1,000,000 either owned or held as collateral by third
parties. In the present bill it is stated that the stock subscriptions are in the possession of the
receiver, but it is not stated whether any of the notes given in connection with stock subscriptions
are in the possession or under the control of said receiver. In the McMillan hill it is stated that
probably less than 50 per cent, of the notes given in connection with stock subscriptions were
collectable. In tbe present bill nothing is said as to tbe amount of uncollectable notes or
uneollectable stock subscriptions. Nowhere in the present bill is it stated directly that less than
the full amount owing on the stock subscriptions wiE be necessary in order to pay the debts and the
administration expenses. It is sought, however, to have the inference drawn from the allegations in
reference to the necessity for assessments that the total amount due on the subscriptions will not
be neeessary. In the MeMillan bill, it is stated unequivocally that the fuE .amount due on the notes
given in connection with stock subscriptions will be necessary in orders to meet tbe debts and
administration expenses. No explanation is found in the present bill of these vital differences in
the statement of facts in the two bills. No reason is given in tbe present bill for tbe omission to
state important facts which appear in the MeMillan bill, and which have a bearing on the propriety
of maintaining the present suit. Both the MeMiEan bill and the present bill are verified. The court
below, in determining tbe motion to dismiss, doubtless considered tbe allegations of the McMillan
biE, so- far as they supplemented $he allegations of the present bill, and so far as they were
relevant to the question of tbe propriety of maintaining tbe present suit. Both bills are of record
in this court, and we are at liberty to consider them both in passing upon the action of the court
below. When the present bill is considered in tbe light of the unexplained and unchallenged
allegations of fact in the MeMiEan bill, we think there is much basis for the contention that the
question of the maintenance of the present suit is governed by the decision in the McMillan suit.
See Sapulpa Petroleum Co. v. McCray (C. C. A.) 4 F.(2d) 645. But it is contended that the
allegations of the present bill only should be considered, in determining the propriety of the
present suit, and that, when the present hill is considered independently, several important facts
show the necessity for the present suit: (1) That the liability on the stock subscriptions, and hot
on the promissory notes given in connection therewith, is sought to be enforced; (2) that the whole
amount of liability is not sought to be enforced, but only sucb proportional part as tbe court shall
determine is neeessary; (3) that an accounting is necessary to determine the assets and liabilities
of tbe company, tbe creditors» who are entitled to share in the fund to be created by tbe collection
of the unpaid subscriptions, and the percentage neeessary to be paid by each subscriber on the
unpaid balance on his subscription in order to meet the claims of creditors; and (4) that such an
accounting can he had only in a court of equity. We do not think that any or aE of these contentions
justify the maintenance of the present suit. We do not, however, find it necessary to decide whether
the question of such maintenance is res adjudicata by reason of the decision in Carey v. McMillan
(C. C. A.) 289 F. 380, nor do we find it necessary to determine whether the Eahility of the stock
subscribers should be determined in suits on the promissory notes given by them or on the stock
subscription contracts. The demand in either instance is a legal one, and the character of the
demand is not changed by reason of the fact that the liability of the defendants may not have to be
enforced to the full extent. The real question is whether, in view-of all the facts, the bringing of
the present bill by the receiver is in accordance with proper practice. It may he conceded that
findings are necessary' as to the amount of assets and of liabilities of the Midland Packing
Company, and the amount of total unpaid stock subscriptions,' as also a determination of the
proportional amount to he enforced against each stock subscriber, and it may be further conceded-
that such findings ought properly to he made by a court of equity. But a suit in equity is already
pending in the same court in which the present bill is brought. The Midland Packing Company is a
party to that suit. All of the above steps can be taken in that existing receivership suit on a
petition by the receiver. The stockholders are not necessary formal parties to such proceedings.
They are represented by the corporation itself, which is a party to the suit. 6 Fletcher Cyc. Corp.
§ 4120; Hawkins v. Glenn, 131 U. S. 319, 9 S. Ct. 739, 33 L. Ed. 184; Glenn v. Liggett, 135 U. S.
533, 10 S. Ct. 867, 34 L. Ed. 262; Great Western Telegraph Co. v. Purdy, 162 U. S. 329, 16 S. Ct.
810, 40 L. Ed. 986; Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516, 27 S. Ct. 755, 51 L. Ed. 1163; Converse
v. Hamilton, 224 U. S. 243, 256, 32 S. Ct. 415, 56 L. Ed. 749, Ann. Cas. 1913D, 1292; Selig v.
Hamilton, 234 U. S. 652, 34 S. Ct. 926, 58 L. Ed. 1518, Ann. Cas. 1917A, 104; Hale v. Hardon, 95 F.
747, 37 C. C. A. 240; Spargo v. Converse, 191 F. 823, 112 C. C. A. 337; In re M. Stipp Const. Co.,
221 F. 372, 137 C. C. A. 180; Rosoff v. Gilbert Transp. Co. (D. C.) 221 F. 972, 979; Howarth v.
Lombard, 175 Mass. 570, 56 N. E. 888, 49 L. R. A. 301.


