**gold_text:**
20 C.F.R. § 404.957(c)(8) provides that a final decision may be reopened at any time “for the
purpose of correcting clerical error or error on the face of the evidence on which such
determination or decision was based.” As the Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit said in
Lauritzen v. Wein-berger, 514 F.2d 561, 563 (8th Cir. 1975), the question for the Social Security
Administration on any claim for reopening is whether an injustice has been done to a claimant, or
whether there is manifest error in the record. This inquiry, in opting for a flexible approach to
the doctrine of res judicata, supports the view expressed by this court in Coulter v. Weinberger,
527 F.2d 224, 228 (3d Cir. 1975):

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
In the context of reopening Miss Fowler’s 1968 claim, relevant precedent supports such a measure due
to administrative errors. Specifically, in 514 F.2d 561, the court allowed reopening where evidence
revealed a clear error on the face of the record. The similarities with Mrs. Lauritzen's case are
striking; both involved overlooked evidence and procedural errors. Moreover, 527 F.2d 224 further
emphasizes that initial, revised, or reconsidered claims may be reopened if clerical or evident
errors are detected.  Applying these principles, we find the Secretary's refusal to reopen Miss
Fowler’s 1968 claim to be legally unsupported. The evidence demonstrates errors that warrant
reconsideration, thus fitting within the regulatory framework as outlined in the reference cases.
Consequently, we remand the case to the Secretary for a substantive review of the 1968 claim,
ensuring compliance with the established legal standards set forth in the cases of 514 F.2d 561 and
527 F.2d 224.


**Label:** 
***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
  In examining the case, we find that the Social Security Administration's determination that no
disability existed on the last day of coverage, June 30, 1966, is not supported by the evidence.
Reference case 514 F.2d 561 highlights the importance of considering all applicable regulations and
overlooking significant factors that may impact the correct adjudication of a claim. In this case,
the administrative law judge's preoccupation with the claimant's earnings record in 1962 led to a
failure to consider critical evidence and overlook significant factors that would have bearing on
the correct adjudication of the claim.  Furthermore, reference case 527 F.2d 224 emphasizes the need
to correct clerical errors or errors on the face of the evidence when reopening a claim. In this
case, the claimant's testimony and medical records provide adequate evidence to reconstruct the
missing record and support the reopening of the claim.  We conclude that the claimant's description
of her difficulties in the 1965-1966 period is convincing, and the evidence submitted by physicians
familiar with her condition supports her claim. The administrative law judge's opinion misses the
mark, and we find that the overwhelming evidence supports a finding of disability during the
critical period.  Therefore, we remand the case to the Secretary for consideration of the claimant's
request to reopen because of error on the record. We also note that the claimant's request to reopen
the 1968 claim is timely, and we will consider this request in conjunction with the Secretary's
decision on the reopened claim.


**Label:** 
**citations:** ['514 F.2d 561', '527 F.2d 224']

***short_citations_0:*** 514 F.2d 561

judicial review of the August 1, 1967, final determination necessarily bars judicial review of the Appeals Council’s decisions. Mrs. Lauritzen filed a third application for reinstatement of disability benefits on December 8, 1971. In that application, she contended that she had been continuously disabled since 1964. The application was denied and then referred, on Mrs. Lauritzen’s request, to an administrative law judge for decision. He stated that he assumed the matter had been referred to him pursuant to 20 C.F.R. § 404.957(c)(8). That section pro vides that an initial, revised or reconsidered determination may be reopened at any time when [s]uch initial * * * determination * * * is unfavorable, in whole or in part, to the party thereto but only for the purpose of correcting clerical error or error on the face of the evidence on which such determination * * * was based. (Emphasis added.) The Social Security Claims Manual defines error on the face of the evidence as follows: * * * An error on the face of the evidence exists where, on the basis of all the evidence in the file on which the determination or decision was based and any evidence of record anywhere in the Administration at the time such determination or decision was made, it is clear that the determination or decision was incorrect. * * * A determination or decision which was reasonable on the basis of the evidence in the file and the statute, regulations, instructions, precedents, etc., existing at

***short_citations_1:*** 527 F.2d 224

part provide: “An initial, revised, or reconsidered determination of the Administration or a decision or ¿Wised decision of an hearing examiner or of the Appeals Council which is otherwise final . . . may be reopened: ****** (c) At any time when: ****** (8) Such initial, revised, or reconsidered determination or decision or revised decision is unfavorable, in whole or in part, to the party thereto but only for the purpose of correcting clerical error or error on the face of the evidence on which such determination or decision was based.” 20 C.F.R. § 404.957. Our review of the record reveals such error as would require a reopening of the 1968 claim under the standard set by the regulations. The hearing officers’ pre-occupation with the claimant’s earnings record in 1962 led to a failure to consider all of the applicable regulations and to overlook a number of other significant factors which would have a bearing on the correct adjudication of the claim. Because of the error of the Social Security Administration in 1959, there was no determination at that time as to whether Coulter was disabled. If a finding of disability had been made, Coulter would have become eligible for payment of benefits in 1960 when the Act was amended to eliminate the age requirement. It seems unlikely that he would have secured any employment thereafter in view of his testimony that he worked in 1961 and 1962 only out of dire need despite his pain, disability and need for

**prev_text:**
OPINION OF THE COURT WEIS, Circuit Judge. Claimant Merle Fowler is presently disabled by multiple
sclerosis. Hampered by the necessity to establish an onset date within her coverage period, she has
been unsuccessful in securing disability benefits from the Social Security Administration.
Difficulties in proof abound, for the disease is a progressive one, the initial date of disability
is seldom easy to determine, and periods of remission are common. And as if these problems were not
enough, they were compounded by the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare’s loss or
destruction of critical records relating to claimant’s first application for benefits. After a
thorough review of the case, we conclude the HEW determination that no disability existed on the
last day of coverage, June 30, 1966 is not supported by the evidence. Finding adequate evidence to
reconstruct the missing record, we remand to the Secretary for consideration of Miss Fowler’s
request to reopen because of error on the record. From the early 1950’s on, Miss Fowler worked for
various medical schools as a recordkeeper, secretary, and nurse. From 1963 to 1967, she was employed
at the University of California at Los Angeles Medical Center. That institution did not participate
in the Social Security program and her coverage earned while at other jobs terminated on June
30,1966. Claimant’s testimony before the administrative law judge revealed that it was during her
service at U.C.L.A. that she began to encounter increasingly serious and bizarre physical
disabilities. These difficulties included: problems in maintaining her balance that were severe
enough to attract accusations of being intoxicated or under the influence of drugs; a four-week
period during which she had to crawl because of an inability to stand; slurred speech resulting in
communication problems with coworkers and patients; difficulty in typing. Miss Fowler was forced to
use up all of her vacation time as well as her sick leave because of her illness. Additionally, she
often found it necessary to rest over long lunch hours. Miss Fowler continued to cling to her
employment because she was living alone and was her own sole means of support. In February 1967, her
condition was such that she could no longer be retained even by the most sympathetic and
understanding employer. At about this time her condition was finally diagnosed as multiple
sclerosis. She then went to live with her sister in Florida, and for a period of about a year and a
half was both bedridden and mentally disoriented. During this interval, her sister filed a
disability claim for her with the Social Security Administration, which was rejected, according to
the sister, because the claimant did not have enough quarters of coverage. The claimant enjoyed a
period of remission from 1970 to 1973 when she was able to obtain limited employment in Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, but thereafter her disease was again disabling. She filed for disability benefits on
March 25, 1974, alleging disability from 1965. After an initial denial, the Secretary referred her
case for disability evaluation to the Pennsylvania Bureau of Vocational Rehabilitation. That agency,
based on information that severe symptoms were observable at some time in 1965 or early 1966,
concluded that a closed period of disability was established between December 31, 1965 and February
1, 1970, when remission occurred. The Secretary, however, disallowed the payment of any benefit
because the 1974 claim had been filed more than twelve months after the first period of disability
had ceased in 1970. See 42 U.S.C. § 416(i)(2)(E). The claimant then requested a hearing, asserting
that the 1968 claim filed by her sister had been erroneously denied and should be reopened. On the
basis of the Bureau of Vocational Rehabilitation disability evaluation, claimant believed she was
entitled to benefits for the 1965 — 1970 period. The ALJ, however, bypassed the 1968 claim issue
altogether, finding instead that there had been no disability before June 30, 1966. The Appeals
Council affirmed and the district court ruled there was substantial evidence supporting the
Secretary’s decision. Looking first to the determination of the onset of disability, we conclude
that there is not substantial evidence to support the ALJ’s decision. The claimant’s description of
her difficulties in the 1965-1966 period is convincing. She tried desperately to hold her job and
exerted extraordinary efforts to cope with her disability. Her case did not rely upon her testimony
alone but was supported by several statements from persons familiar with her at that time. A letter
from Justine Walker, a coworker, was received into evidence and corroborated Miss Fowler’s account
of her difficulties. In addition, the detailed statements of two physicians who were aware of her
condition during the period were made part of the record. Dr. Donald A. Adams, her treating
physician, stated: “[Bjeyond question . . . she had multiple sclerosis dating back probably to 1965
and early 1966.” He said further: “were she an employee of mine during late 1965 and early 1966 I
would have had no other alternative except to terminate her due to her illness even though the
consequences would have been that she would be unable to procure another job.” Dr. Jack A. Cannon,
her employer in 1965, said that she should not have been working at that time. “However, in
considering what would happen to her if I did recommend that she be terminated, I had to realize
that she would be unable to secure another position because of the problems, and that I could not
recommend her for other employment based on her mental and physical condition.” Her physician at the
time of the hearing, Dr. Lawrence D. Ellis, came to a similar opinion after reviewing Miss Fowler’s
records. He believed she was unable to engage in substantial gainful employment for a period
beginning in late 1965. Moreover, the Bureau of Vocational Rehabilitation report, which, after
careful study, found that disability existed as of December 31, 1965, was totally ignored in the
ALJ’s decision. The ALJ did not refer to any of the foregoing evidence, but merely summarized the
medical reports relating to the disability period prior to June 30, 1966 as giving “no indication of
severe and protracted disability prior to that date.” This conclusory statement misses the mark on
several counts. It fails to observe the appropriate legal standard, whether claimant is unable “to
engage in any substantial gainful activity,” 42 U.S.C. §§ 416(i)(l), 423(d)(1), and substitutes a
far harsher requirement. Additionally, the statement is directly contrary to the evidence submitted
by the physicians familiar with claimant’s condition. In fact, it is not supported by any medical
opinion in this case. As we commented in Gober v. Matthews, 574 F.2d 772, 777 (3d Cir. 1978), an ALJ
is not free to set his own expertise against that of physicians who present competent medical
evidence. The ALJ’s opinion drew some unsupported inferences from the fact that claimant had been
employed by physicians. The ALJ commented, “it is axiomatic that physicians take care of their own.”
The thrust of this remark is somewhat obscure because the record indicates the employers did take
care of claimant by retaining her for a longer period than that which could be justified by her
failing health. To that extent, the “axiom” tends to support Miss Fowler’s claim that she continued
to work even though physically incapable of performing the tasks demanded of her. Moreover, her
employment after the cut-off date does not foreclose an award of benefits since disability “turns on
whether she was disabled within the meaning of the Act notwithstanding the fact that she actually
did work.” Stark v. Weinberger, 497 F.2d 1092, 1100 (7th Cir. 1974). We find it particularly
puzzling that the ALJ ignored the findings on disability reached by the state agency to which the
Secretary had referred the matter. That expert body made a determination of disability on less
evidence than was submitted to the ALJ. Although findings by other agencies are not binding on the
Secretary, they are entitled to weight and must be considered. We said in an early case that the
evaluation of disability by the Veterans Administration was critically relevant and material in a
parallel Social Security ease. Pulaski v. Finch, 415 F.2d 613, 618 (3d Cir. 1969). See also Cutler
v. Weinberger, 516 F.2d 1282, 1286 (2d Cir. 1975); DePaepe v. Richardson, 464 F.2d 92,101 (5th Cir.
1972). And in a case quite similar to the one at bar, Dunbar v. Califano, 454 F.Supp. 1261
(W.D.N.Y.1978), the court expressed disapproval over an ALJ’s failure to consider the disability
finding of a state agency consulted by the Secretary. After careful review of the record, we are
convinced that the overwhelming evidence supports a finding of disability during the critical
period, and the Secretary’s determination to the contrary cannot stand. Indeed, absent the question
of timely filing, we would enter judgment for the plaintiff at this point. We must now, then,
consider the effect of the 1968 claim. The 1974 application would not be timely if it constituted
the original claim because it was filed more than twelve months after the closed disability period
terminated in 1970. The claimant, however, asked that the 1974 claim be considered as one requesting
a reopening of the original application filed on her behalf some six years earlier.


