**gold_text:**
. An ALJ’s credibility determination is entitled to "considerable deference.” Steward v. Bowen, 858
F.2d 1295, 1302 (7th Cir.1988). See also Edwards v. Sullivan, 985 F.2d 334, 338 (7th Cir. 1993).

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
III. CREDIBILITY DETERMINATIONS  Plaintiff argues that the ALJ’s assessment of her credibility
regarding the extent of her impairments and their impact on her ability to work is flawed. The ALJ
determined that Plaintiff's complaints were not entirely credible, especially regarding the severity
of her pain and the side effects of her medications. It is well-established that credibility
findings by an ALJ are entitled to deference and will not be disturbed unless “patently wrong.” See
Anderson v. Sullivan, 925 F.2d 220, 222 (7th Cir.1991) and Stuckey v. Sullivan, 881 F.2d 506 (7th
Cir.1989).  In 858 F.2d 1295, the court emphasized that an ALJ’s credibility determination must be
supported by substantial evidence. Here, the ALJ considered multiple factors in evaluating
Plaintiff's credibility: medical evidence did not demonstrate a condition expected to cause the
alleged degree of pain, and Plaintiff's activities suggested a higher functional capacity than
claimed. Similar to the findings in 985 F.2d 334, the ALJ noted inconsistencies between Plaintiff's
reported limitations and observed activities.  The ALJ’s decision aligns with precedent that ALJ
credibility determinations are supported if based on objective evidence and multifactor analysis.
Thus, the ALJ’s credibility finding is affirmed, as it is not patently wrong and is backed by
substantial evidence from the record.  CONCLUSION  For the reasons discussed, the Commissioner’s
decision is affirmed, and Plaintiff’s motion for remand is denied.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
  As we can see from the case, the plaintiff, Pamela Vadeboncoeur, seeks judicial review of the
Commissioner's decision denying her application for Disability Insurance Benefits and Supplemental
Security Income. The case involves a review of the Administrative Law Judge's (ALJ) decision, which
found that the plaintiff was not disabled despite her numerous medical conditions.  The ALJ's
decision is supported by substantial evidence, as required by law. The ALJ considered the
plaintiff's testimony, medical records, and the vocational expert's testimony. The vocational expert
testified that the plaintiff could perform sedentary work and could perform her past relevant work
as a product hand assembler.  In determining whether the plaintiff could perform her past relevant
work, the ALJ relied on the testimony of the vocational expert. The vocational expert stated that
the plaintiff could return to her past work as a production assembler and that there would be a
variety of hand-assembly positions that she could perform in the national economy. This testimony
was unobjected to and the plaintiff's attorney did not cross-examine the vocational expert on this
point.  The plaintiff argues that the ALJ's decision is not supported by substantial evidence, but
this argument is unfounded. The ALJ's decision is supported by the vocational expert's testimony and
the medical records, which show that the plaintiff is capable of performing sedentary work.  In
addition, the plaintiff submitted new evidence to the Appeals Council, which was denied. The new
evidence includes medical records from the plaintiff's hospitalizations for hernia repair. However,
this evidence does not provide a basis for changing the ALJ's decision, as it only confirms the
ALJ's statement of the plaintiff's condition and does not show that the plaintiff's RFC has changed.
In conclusion, the Commissioner's decision is affirmed, and the plaintiff's motion for remand is
denied. The ALJ's decision is supported by substantial evidence, and the new evidence submitted by
the plaintiff does not provide a basis for changing the decision.  References: 858 F.2d 1295, 985
F.2d 334


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['858 F.2d 1295', '985 F.2d 334']

***short_citations_0:*** 858 F.2d 1295

swelling in her knee, low back pain, hearing loss, and chronic bronchitis, were not credible to the extent that they would prevent her from performing her past relevant work. Id. at 9. Steward argues that the objective medical evidence supports her asserted pain, and therefore the AU’s conclusion that she is capable of performing her past relevant work despite her pain is not supported by substantial evidence. Contrary to Steward’s position, however, the AU did not totally discredit Steward’s complaints of pain. Rather, the AU simply found that these complaints were not fully credible to the extent that they would prevent Steward from working as a receptionist. An AU’s credibility determinations are entitled to considerable deference. Bibbs v. Secretary, 626 F.2d 526, 528 (7th Cir.1980). Steward did not present any evidence that casts doubt on the AU’s finding that Steward’s allegations of pain were not fully credible to the extent that the pain would prevent her from working as a receptionist. Although a more detailed discussion of Steward’s alleged pain and its possible impact on her ability to perform her past relevant work would have aided our review of the Secretary’s decision, we cannot say that the AU’s opinion fell below the minimal level of articulation required by Look v. Heckler, 775 F.2d 192 (7th Cir.1985). VI. We are sympathetic to the claimant’s condition and the variety of severe impairments from which she suffers. We cannot find, however, that the Secretary’s conclusion — that Steward failed to establish that she

***short_citations_1:*** 985 F.2d 334

the Secretary’s decision must be reversed. Stuckey v. Sullivan, 881 F.2d 506 (7th Cir.1989). However, we have recognized that “determinations of credibility often involve intangible and unarticulable elements which impress the AU, that, unfortunately leave ‘no trace that can be discerned in this or any other transcript.’ ” Kelley v. Sullivan, 890 F.2d 961, 964 (7th Cir.1989) (citations omitted). Thus, it is generally understood that a reviewing court does not reconsider credibility determinations made by the AU so long as they find some support in the record. Anderson v. Sullivan, 925 F.2d 220, 222 (7th Cir.1991). In finding that Edwards’ complaints of disabling pain were not credible, the AU considered the following factors: (1) medical evidence failed to demonstrate a condition that would be expected to cause the degree of pain alleged; (2) the AU’s observation of Edwards at the hearing; (3) Edwards’ present activities, which included making meals, folding laundry, going grocery shopping with her husband, and attending church; and (4) Edwards’ pending personal injury action. Therefore, the AU’s credibility determination is sufficiently supported by the record and is not “patently wrong.” Moreover, we have held that “[wjhether credible or not in her testimony about her subjective symptoms, [a claimant] is not entitled to benefits if the objective medical evidence failed to show a medical condition that would reasonably be expected to cause those symptoms.” Moot-hart, 934 F.2d at 117 (emphasis in original). The plaintiff’s contention that the AU committed clear error of law when he discounted the Social

**prev_text:**
MEMORANDUM OPINION AND ORDER IAN H. LEVIN, United States Magistrate Judge. Plaintiff, Pamela
Vadeboncoeur, seeks judicial review pursuant to the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. § 405(g), of a
final decision of the Commissioner of Social Security (the “Commissioner”) denying her application
for Disability Insurance Benefits (“DIB”) and Supplemental Security Income (“SSI”). Plaintiff moves
for summary judgment pursuant to Fed.R.Civ.P. 56. In the alternative, Plaintiff moves that her case
be remanded to the Commissioner for consideration of additional, new evidence. The Defendant has
filed a brief in support of the Commissioner’s decision, requesting affirmance of that decision and
a denial of the motion for remand. For the reasons set forth below, the Commissioner’s decision is
affirmed and the motion for remand denied. PROCEDURAL HISTORY Plaintiff applied for DIB on April 11,
1994 and for SSI on March 15, 1994 (R. 34-^tl.) Her applications, and timely request for
reconsideration, were denied by the Commissioner of the Social Security Administration. (R. 42-50.)
Upon Plaintiffs timely request (R. .51), a hearing was held — wherein Plaintiff was represented by
an attorney — before Administrative Law Judge John L. Mondi (the “ALJ”) on July 27,1995. (R. 318.)
The ALJ denied Plaintiffs applications on October 17, 1995 on the grounds that Plaintiff retained
the ability to perform her past relevant work as a hand product assembler. (R. 18.) On July 24,
1996, the ALJ’s decision became the Commissioner’s final decision when the Appeals Council denied
Plaintiffs request for review. (R. 4-5.) Pursuant to 42 U.S.C. §§ 405(g) and 1383(c)(3), Plaintiff
initiated this civil action for judicial review of the Commissioner’s final decision. LEGAL
STANDARDS I. STANDARD OF REVIEW Judicial review of the Commissioner’s final decision is limited. The
Social Security Act, at 42 U.S.C. § 405(g), establishes that the Commissioner’s findings as to any
fact are conclusive if they are supported by substantial evidence. See also Brewer v. Chater, 103
F.3d 1384, 1390 (7th Cir.1997). “Substantial evidence” means “such relevant evidence as a reasonable
mind might accept as adequate to support a conclusion.” Richardson v. Perales, 402 U.S. 389, 401, 91
S.Ct. 1420, 1427, 28 L.Ed.2d 842 (1971); Brewer, 103 F.3d at 1390. The court may not reevaluate the
facts, reweigh the evidence, or substitute its own judgment for that of the Commissioner. See
Brewer, 103 F.3d at 1390. Conclusions of law are not entitled to deference, however, so if the
Commissioner commits an error of law, reversal is required without regard to the volume of evidence
in support of the factual findings. See Binion v. Chater, 108 F.3d 780, 782 (7th Cir.1997). II.
STATUTORY AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK To receive disability benefits, a SSI or DIB claimant must be
“disabled” as defined by The Social Security Act. See 42 U.S.C. § 423(a)(1)(D); 42 U.S.C. § 1382(a);
Pope v. Shalala, 998 F.2d 473, 477 (7th Cir.1993). An individual is “disabled” if she is unable “to
engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or
mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or which has lasted or can be expected to
last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months.” See 42 U.S.C. § 423(d)(1)(A);-:20 C.F.R. §
404.1505(a). See also Jones v. Shalala, 10 F.3d 522, 523-24 (7th Cir.1993). To satisfy this
definition, an individual must have a severe impairment that renders her unable to do her previous
work or any other substantial gainful activity that exists in the national economy. See 20 C.F.R. §
404.1505(a). The Social Security regulations delineate a five-step process for determining whether a
claimant is disabled within the meaning of the Act. See 20 C.F.R. §§ 404.1520. The ALJ first
considers whether the claimant is presently employed or “engaged in substantial gainful activity.”
20 C.F.R. § 404.1520(b). If he or she is, the claimant is not disabled, and the evaluation process
is over; if he or she is not, the ALJ next addresses whether the claimant has a severe impairment or
combination of impairments which “significantly limits ... physical or mental ability to do basic
work activities.” 20 C.F.R. 404.1520(c). Third, the ALJ determines whether that severe impairment
meets any of the impairments listed in the regulations, 20 C.F.R. § 401, pt. 404, subpt. P, app. 1.
If it does, then the impairment is acknowledged by the Commissioner to be conclusively disabling.
See, Brewer, 103 F.3d at 1391. If the impairment does not so limit the claimant’s remaining
capabilities, the fourth step is that the ALJ reviews the claimant’s “residual functional capacity”
(“RFC”) and the physical and mental demands of her past work. RFC is a measure of what an individual
can do despite the limitations imposed by her impairments. See 20 C.F.R. §§ 404.1545(a), 416.945(a).
See also Social Security Ruling 96-8p (1996). If the claimant can perform her past relevant work,
she will be found not disabled. See 20 C.F.R. § 404.1520(e). For the fifth step, if the claimant
shows that her impairment is so severe that she is unable to engage in her past relevant work, then
the burden of proof shifts to the Commissioner to establish that the claimant — in light of her age,
education, job experience and functional capacity to work — is capable of performing other work and
that such work exists in the national economy. See 42 U.S.C. § 423(d)(2); 20 C.F.R. § 404.1520(f).
See also Brewer, 103 F.3d at 1391. THE ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING I. PLAINTIFF’S TESTIMONY Plaintiff was
born on December 7, 1953, and was 41 years old at the time of the AL J’s decision. (R. 322.)
Plaintiff has a high school education and attended one year of college. (Id.) From 1980-86,
Plaintiff worked as a clerk/cashier and assistant manager at a gas station. (R. 325-26.) That job
involved lifting over 20 pounds, as well as bending and stretching. (R. 326.) Plaintiff then worked
at Dove Bar International dipping ice cream bars and boxing the bars for shipping. (R. 324-25.) The
job at Dove Bar, which Plaintiff performed standing, did not require lifting anything over a few
pounds. (R. 325.) Plaintiff worked at Dove Bar for three months. (R. 324.) From November 1986 until
August 1991, Plaintiff worked as a spot welder for Athena Industries, a manufacturer of steel wire
racks. (R. 323-24.) This job involved, among other things, heavy lifting. (R. 324.) When asked
regarding what prevented her from working, Plaintiff testified that she had a recurrent hernia which
has undergone five repairs. (R. 326.) Plaintiff also testified that she has asthma. (R. 327.)
Plaintiff testified that she gets dizzy due to a side effect caused from her medicine, Lozol. (R.
329.) Plaintiff stated that she has a problem with nervousness and depression because of the
medicines she takes and suffers from migraine headaches. (R. 329-330.) Plaintiff claimed that she
had memory and concentration problems, but was not sure if they should be characterized as major or
minor. (R. 332.) Plaintiff further testified that she: (1) had no problem sitting (R. 327); (2)
could stand at least 15 to 20 minutes without problems (id.); (3) could walk a half a block without
problems (R. 328); (4) could not lift a gallon of milk (id.); and (5) could not bend very much
(id.). II. MEDICAL EVIDENCE Plaintiff submitted evidence regarding her abdominal problems. Although
Plaintiff testified that she underwent five hernia operations, she only gave the ALJ medical records
from two of those operations, December 1991 and January 1994. (R. 87-104, 139-47.) Plaintiffs
January 1994 surgery required another hospital stay due to discharge from the surgical wound.- (R.
164-68.) Plaintiff also submitted records regarding laparoscopic surgery she underwent in April 1992
which resulted in gallstones being removed. (R. 105-117.) In addition, records reflected that
Plaintiff was treated in the emergency room for pain and discharge in her abdominal area in August
1992. (R. 123-27.) Plaintiff submitted evidence regarding heart problems. For example, in May 1994,
Plaintiff was hospitalized with an acute myo-' cardial infarction. (R. 178, 180.) Cardiac
catheterization studies revealed coronary artery disease. (R. 181, 209.) Plaintiff underwent
coronary angioplasty and took medication. (R. 208-09.) An EKG stress test conducted in July 1994 was
normal, with no ischemic symptoms or EKG changes. (R. 227, 292.) Plaintiff had normal blood pressure
and heart rate, and her exercise capacity was only mildly reduced. (R. 227.) In May 1995, Dr. Chris
Kolyvas reported that he had treated Plaintiff with medication for coronary artery disease. (R.
292.) He indicated that the stress thallium testing had revealed no evidence of ischemia and was
essentially normal. (Id.) In June 1994, Dr. Delano Zimmerman issued a residual functional capacity
assessment which was reviewed and affirmed by Dr. Francis Vincent. (R. 257-64.) This report stated
that Plaintiff could occasionally lift twenty pounds, frequently lift ten pounds, stand/walk about
six hours in an eight-hour workday and sit about six hours in an eight-hour workday. (R. 258.) Dr.
Zimmerman stated that Plaintiff would not need any manipulative or environmental limitations. (R.
261.) In August 1995, Dr. Kasbekar, Plaintiffs treating physician, filled out a residual functional
capacity questionnaire. (R. 287.) Dr. Kasbekar diagnosed Plaintiff with a large ventral incisional
hernia and status coronary angioplasty and noted Plaintiffs complaints of abdominal pain and
cramping and dizziness and drowsiness. (R. 287.) Dr. Kasbekar indicated that Plaintiff could walk
one to two blocks at a time, sit thirty minutes, at a time, and stand ten minutes at a time; she
could sit at least six hours during a normal eight-hour day, and could walk and stand two hours
intermittently during an eight-hour work day. (R. 289.) Dr. Kasbekar specified that Plaintiff needed
to shift positions at will and that she could perform no weight lifting. (R. 289, 290.) Dr. Kasbekar
stated that Plaintiff “can’t work because of coronary disease and hernia.” (R. 290.) III. THE
VOCATIONAL EXPERT’S TESTIMONY An impartial vocational expert, Edward Pagella (the “VE”), testified
at Plaintiffs hearing. The VE testified that the skill and exertional levels of Plaintiffs prior
employment were as follows: (1) Plaintiffs elerk/cashier job was unskilled, light work; (2)
Plaintiffs production assembler job at Dove Bar was generally an unskilled sedentary job; and (3)
Plaintiffs production welder job was semi-skilled, medium work. (R. 339.) The VE testified that a
person of Plaintiffs age, education, medical condition and work history could perform sedentary work
and could perform the job of production assembler in the national economy. (R. 339-342.) The VE
testified that if the ALJ credited Plaintiffs testimony regarding her limitations on walking,
standing, lifting and drowsiness caused by medication, there would be no jobs that she could perform
in the economy. (R. 340-41.) The VE also testified that if the ALJ did not credit Plaintiffs
testimony that she suffered from drowsiness caused by the medications, Plaintiff could perform other
work plentifully existing in the national economy, including work as a telephone marketing clerk, a
charge account clerk, or a credit reference clerk. (R. 341-42.) IV. THE ALJ’S FINDINGS AND DECISION
The ALJ found that Plaintiff had not engaged in substantial gainful activity since August 1,1991 —
the alleged onset of disability. (R. 14.) The ALJ found that Plaintiff had impairments which,
although severe, did not meet or equal the requirements of any medical listings in the regulations
at 20 C.F.R. Part 404, subpt. P, app. 1. (R. 15.) The ALJ described Plaintiffs impairments as “a
history of a myocardial infarction with angioplasty, a history of hernia repairs, diabetes mellitus,
hypertension, obesity and asthma.” (R. 17.) Because the ALJ did not find that Plaintiffs impairments
met or equaled a listed impairment, the ALJ assessed her RFC — what Plaintiff could do despite her
limitations. After reviewing the testimony presented at the hearing and Plaintiffs medical records,
the ALJ concluded that Plaintiff was not disabled because she retained the residual functional
capacity for at least sedentary work and she could perform- her past relevant sedentary work as a
product hand assembler. (R. 16-18.) The ALJ found that Plaintiffs past relevant work as a product
hand assembler did not require the performance of work-related activities precluded by Plaintiffs
limitations. (Id.) Because the ALJ found that Plaintiff could perform her past relevant work at step
four of the sequential analysis, the ALJ did not consider step five of the sequential analysis,
whether Plaintiff was capable of performing other work and whether such work existed in the national
economy. ANALYSIS I. THE PAST RELEVANT WORK ISSUE Plaintiffs threshold argument is that the ALJ’s
finding that Plaintiff could perform her past relevant work as a product hand assembler is not
supported by “substantial evidence.” In order for a Plaintiff to show, at step four of the
sequential analysis, that she is unable to perform her past relevant work, she is required to prove
that she did not have the residual functional capacity to perform the functional demands and duties
of her past job either: (1) as she actually performed the job, or (2) as was generally required by
employers throughout the national economy. See, e.g., Brewer v. Chater, 103 F.3d 1384, 1393 (7th
Cir.1997); Arbogast v. Bowen, 860 F.2d 1400, 1403 (7th Cir.1988). To make this determination, it is
necessary to compare the demands of the past position with the claimant’s present capacity. See,
e.g., Strittmatter v. Schweiker, 729 F.2d 507, 509 (7th Cir.1984). Initially, it appears from the
record that Plaintiff could not perform the functional demands of her specific job at Dove Bar as
she actually performed it. At Dove Bar, Plaintiff performed her job standing. (R. 325.) However, the
ALJ noted without apparent disagreement that, according to a medical assessment by Plaintiffs
treating physician, Plaintiff could only stand approximately two hours per work day. (R. 15-16.)
Plaintiff testified that she could only stand at one time around 15 to 20 minutes without having
problems. (R. 327.) Tellingly, the VE testified that due to the job standing requirement, Plaintiff
could not perform her job at Dove Bar as she previously had performed it. (R. 342.) The next issue
thus is whether plaintiff could perform her past relevant work as it is generally performed in the
national economy. As stated, the plaintiff had the burden to show that she could not perform her
past relevant work. The ALJ determined that plaintiffs testimony as to her residual functional
capacity was not credible in view of the objective medical findings and other evidence of record.
(R. 16, 18.) The ALJ further found that plaintiff retained the capacity to perform her past relevant
work as a sedentary level product hand assembler. (R. 10, 18.) There was “substantial evidence” of
record to support the ALJ finding that Plaintiff could perform her past relevant work as a sedentary
level product hand assembler. The ALJ relied on the testimony of the vocational expert. The
vocational expert, having reviewed the entire record and heard the plaintiffs testimony,
unequivocally testified: (a) that plaintiff could return to her past work as a production assembler;
and (b) that Plaintiffs production assembler job is considered to be sedentary work as it is
performed in the national economy and “most hand-assembly types of positions are performed at the
sedentary level so there would be a variety of hand-assembly positions that she could perform” in
the national economy. (R. 339-40, 342.) The above testimony was unobjected to, and the plaintiffs
attorney at the hearing did not cross-examine the vocational expert on this point(s). II. NEWLY
SUBMITTED EVIDENCE After the ALJ issued his decision, Plaintiff submitted some additional evidence
to the Appeals Council. (R. 304-17.) The evidence included medical records from Plaintiffs
hospitalizations for hernia repair in February 1993, March 1994, April 1994 and October 1995. (R.
308-17.) The Appeals Council considered this additional evidence in Plaintiffs request for review,
but concluded that the evidence did not “provide a basis for changing the [ALJ’s] decision.” (R. 4.)
Plaintiff has filed a motion for remand and argues that this court should reconsider Plaintiffs
claim in light of this additional evidence. Where, as here, the Appeals Council has denied review
and the ALJ decision is the final decision, it is ordinarily improper for a court to consider new
evidence not presented to the ALJ because “the correctness of that decision depends on the evidence
that was before the [ALJ].” Eads v. Secretary of the Dept. of Health & Human Servs., 983 F.2d 815,
817 (7th Cir.1993). See also Diaz v. Chater, 55 F.3d 300, 305 n. 1 (1995). Nevertheless, a court may
conduct a limited review of new evidence where the claimant alleges that the Appeals Council’s
denial of review rests on a mistake of law. Eads, 983 F.2d at 817; Prak v. Chater, 892 F.Supp. 1081,
1085 (N.D.Ill.1995). In addition, pursuant to the sixth sentence of 42 U.S.C. § 405(G), this court
may remand the case for consideration of new and material evidence. See Eads, 983 F.2d at 817.
Plaintiff argues both that the Appeals Council made a legal mistake in failing to grant review
(based on the additional evidence) and that the additional evidence mandates remand. Plaintiff
states that the critical issue for deciding whether the Appeals Council erred in denying review or
whether remand is warranted under 42 U.S.C. § 405(g) is the materiality of the evidence. To
establish materiality, Plaintiff must show a “reasonable probability” that the ALJ would have
reached a different disposition of the disability claim if presented with the new evidence. See
Sample v. Shalala, 999 F.2d 1138, 1144 (7th Cir.1993) (quoting Sears v. Bowen, 840 F.2d 394, 400
(7th Cir.1988)). This court has determined from the de novo review of the additional evidence
submitted by Plaintiff that this evidence would not have a reasonable probability of causing a
different disposition. First, Plaintiff submitted reports concerning operations performed on
Plaintiff on February 19, 1993, March 26, 1994, and April 11, 1994. (R. 308-10.) It is difficult to
understand how these records are “material” because the records predated both of Plaintiff’s medical
residual functional capacity assessments. (See R. 257-64, 287-91) Thus, any limitations which
Plaintiff suffered in conjunction with these operations were considered in Plaintiff’s
aforedescribed RFC assessments of record. In any event, contrary to Plaintiff’s contention, the
additional evidence of these hernia surgeries, and her hernia surgery and hospitalization in
October, 1995 (R. 311-17), do not provide a basis for changing the ALJ’s decision. This evidence
elaborates on Dr. Kasbekar’s diagnoses and treatment, but does not in any way connote a change in
Plaintiffs RFC as described by Dr. Kasbekar in August 1995 and as found by the ALJ. (R. 15, 16,
287-91, 308-17.) Moreover, the additional evidence only confirms the ALJ’s statement of Plaintiffs
condition as a history of recurrent hernias requiring surgeries (R. 15-16) and the ALJ’s conclusion
that further surgery can again correct Plaintiffs condition, although she still will have ongoing
lifting restrictions (R. 16, compare to Dr. Kasbekar’s findings that Plaintiff had “tolerated the
[October, 1995] procedure well” and that her October, 1995 post operative recovery was “uneventful”
(R. 314, 315)). In short, the subject evidence does not meet the definitional standard for
materiality. CONCLUSION In view of the foregoing, the Commissioner’s decision is affirmed. The
Plaintiffs motion for remand is denied. . References are to the certified administrative record
prepared by the Commissioner and filed with this court pursuant to 42 U.S.C. § 405(g). . As an
initial matter, Plaintiff contends that the ALJ erred in determining that her job at Dove Bar
constituted "past relevant work” to use in a step four analysis. Plaintiff’s argument is that her
three month duration of employment there is insufficient to consider the work relevant. The
regulations define past relevant work as work that was performed within the last fifteen years,
lasted long enough for the claimant to learn how to do the job and was substantial gainful activity.
See 20 C.F.R. §§ 404.1565(a), 416.965(a). Here, Plaintiffs job at Dove Bar required dipping ice
cream bars in chocolate and packing them in a box. (R.'72, 324-25.) The VE described such work as
unskilled (R. 339), which, according to the regulations, means that "a person can usually learn to
do the job in 30 days, and little specific vocational preparation and judgment are needed." 20
C.F.R. §§ 404.1568(a), 416.968(a). Plaintiff has not provided any evidence — nor legal support —
demonstrating that she was unable to learn the Dove Bar job in 30 days. In sum, Plaintiff’s
challenge to the ALJ’s determination on this point is not supportable.


