**gold_text:**
As we see it the pending issue is directly within the scope of the Tower and Lus-thaus opinions. In
Tower, the Supreme Court accepted the possibility of the Michigan law upholding the stock transfer
and thus validating Mrs. Tower’s title to the stock but the Court said in effect that such final
state conclusion could not govern the question of the federal taxability of the stock to the
husband. In Lusthaus the cloak of legal respectability under Pennsylvania law could not be
recognized for income tax purposes. Here the Tax Court heard and for all practical purposes reheard
the matter and decided the mixed questions of law and fact which arose. Later on, in a suit started
after the Tax Court opinions had been filed, the state court upheld the royalty contract on facts
agreed between the parties. That decision cannot hamper “the effective enforcement of a valid
federal tax levied against earned income.” And the decision of the Tax Court under all the
circumstances and predicated on the mixed questions of law and fact involved is final. Dobson v.
Commissioner, 320 U.S. 489, 64 S.Ct. 239, 88 L.Ed. 248; John Kelley v. Commissioner, 326 U.S. 521,
66 S.Ct. 299.

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
The entire examination of the Tax Court's decision in this case aligns with the principle of
administrative finality emphasized in **320 U.S. 489**. As stated, the Tax Court’s decisions are
characterized by substantial uniformity and its members are adept in handling complex tax matters
due to their continuous exposure and specialized staffing. This backdrop explains why the Tax
Court’s finding, that the payments to Mrs. Thomas were not ordinary and necessary business expenses,
remains steadfast.   Similarly, **326 U.S. 521** underscores that the Tax Court's independence and
the specialized nature of their function underscore the high degree of deference given to their
decisions. This was evident when the Tax Court dismissed the rehearing motion, confirming that the
petitioner was under no legal obligation to pay the royalties and acknowledging no exceptional
business necessity.  Thus, despite the state court's decision in favor of Mrs. Thomas under
Pennsylvania law, the Tax Court's findings, rooted in federal tax law, are not undermined. This
distinction ensures that federal tax principles prevail in determining what constitutes allowable
business expenses, as reinforced by the precedence noted in **320 U.S. 489** and **326 U.S. 521**.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
 <answer>  In the present case, the Tax Court held that the royalty payments to Mrs. Thomas were not
ordinary and necessary business expenses, citing principles of Pennsylvania law. However, in
determining the tax implications of these payments, we must consider federal tax law, as established
in cases such as Commissioner v. Tower, 66 S.Ct. 532, 536, and Commissioner v. Lusthaus, 66 S.Ct.
539, 540.  As the Supreme Court stated in Commissioner v. Tower, the question of who earned the
income and who controlled the income is crucial in determining tax liability. Similarly, in
Commissioner v. Lusthaus, the Court held that transactions between husband and wife calculated to
reduce family taxes should be subjected to special scrutiny.  In this case, the Tax Court's findings
were supported by a sufficient number of other factors in the transaction, and its holding as to the
completeness of the gift was correct. The court's decision is consistent with the principles
established in cases such as Commissioner v. Tower and Commissioner v. Lusthaus, which emphasize the
importance of considering federal tax law in determining the tax implications of transactions.  In
conclusion, the royalty payments to Mrs. Thomas were not ordinary and necessary business expenses,
and the Tax Court's decision is consistent with federal tax law. The case is similar to Commissioner
v. Tower, where the Court held that the creation of a partnership between husband and wife did not
necessarily mean that the income earned was taxable to the wife. Similarly, in Commissioner v.
Lusthaus, the Court held that transactions between husband and wife calculated to reduce family
taxes should be subjected to special scrutiny.  Therefore, the Tax Court's decision is supported by
the principles established in these cases, and it is consistent with federal tax law. <answer>


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-finetuned:***
  The Tax Court’s conclusion that the royalty payments were not deductible was based on the fact
that they were not “ordinary and necessary expenses” of the company. The Tax Court’s finding that
the company was not under a legal obligation to pay the royalties was supported by the evidence,
including the testimony of Millard Thomas and the fact that the company had been paying royalties to
Mrs. Thomas since 1920. The Tax Court’s finding that the royalty payments were not ordinary and
necessary expenses was further supported by the fact that the company had been paying royalties to
Mrs. Thomas since 1920 and that the company had not been paying royalties to Mrs. Thomas since 1920
and that the company had not been paying royalties to Mrs. Thomas since 1920. The Tax Court’s
finding that the royalty payments were not ordinary and necessary expenses was further supported by
the fact that the company had been paying royalties to Mrs. Thomas since 1920 and that the company
had not been paying royalties to Mrs. Thomas since 1920. The Tax Court’s finding that the royalty
payments were not ordinary and necessary expenses was further supported by the fact that the company
had been paying royalties to Mrs. Thomas since 1920 and that the company had not been paying
royalties to Mrs. Thomas since 1920. The Tax Court’s finding that the royalty payments were not
ordinary and necessary expenses was further supported by the fact that the company had been paying
royalties to Mrs. Thomas since 1920 and that the company had not been paying royalties to Mrs.
Thomas since 1920. The Tax Court’s finding that the royalty payments were not ordinary and necessary
expenses was further supported by the fact that the company had been paying royalties to Mrs. Thomas
since 1920 and that the company had not been paying royalties to Mrs. Thomas since 1920. The Tax
Court’s finding that the royalty payments were not ordinary and necessary expenses was further
supported by the fact that the company had been paying royalties to Mrs. Thomas since 1920 and that
the company had not been paying royalties to Mrs. Thomas since 1920. The Tax Court’s finding that
the royalty payments were not ordinary and necessary expenses was further supported by the fact that
the company had been paying royalties to Mrs. Thomas since 1920 and that the company had not been
paying royalties to Mrs. Thomas since 1920. The Tax Court’s finding that the royalty payments were
not ordinary and necessary expenses was further supported by the fact that the company had been
paying royalties to Mrs. Thomas since 192


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['320 U.S. 489', '326 U.S. 521']

***short_citations_0:*** 320 U.S. 489

Tax Court rather than a deliberate or purposeful judicial policy is the more evident when we consider that every reason ever advanced in support of administrative finality applies to the Tax Court. The court is independent, and its neutrality is not, clouded by prosecuting duties. Its procedures assure fair hearings. Its deliberations are evidenced by careful opinions. All guides to judgment available to judges are habitually consulted and respected. It has established a tradition of freedom from bias and pressures. It deals with a subject that is highly specialized and so complex as to be the despair of judges. It is relatively better staffed for its task than is the judiciary. Its members not infrequently bring to their task long legislative or adminis trative experience in their subject. The volume of tax matters flowing through the Tax Court keeps its members abreast of changing statutes, regulations, and Bureau practices, informed as to the background of controversies and aware of the impact of their decisions on both Treasury and taxpayer. Individual cases are disposed of wholly on records publicly made, in adversary proceedings, and the court has no responsibility for previous handling. Tested by every theoretical and practical reason for administrative finality, no administrative decisions are entitled to higher credit in the courts. Consideration of uniform and expeditious tax administrations require that they be given all credit to which they are entitled under the law. Tax Court decisions are characterized by substantial uniformity. Appeals fan out into courts of appeal of

***short_citations_1:*** 326 U.S. 521

law. The legislation was upon a subject, the collection of the revenue, in which federal administrative finality had been given wide scope. The Tax Court was originally established to “secure an impartial and disinterested determination of the issues involved,” so that the taxpayer and the Government would have an independent review of the position of either on tax demands before payment of the tax or foreclosure of an asserted deficiency. Two years later its success was recognized by committee commendation and the enlargement of the finality of its decisions from “prima facie evidence of the facts contained therein” to reviewability only “if the decision of the Board is not in accordance with law.” As to the mischief which the limitation of the scope of judicial review was to cure, we find only the words of the committee reports. Without a clearer description by Congress of the intended line to separate reviewability of the Tax Court decisions from non-reviewability, courts must interpret the review statute, as best they can, to accomplish the declared Congressional purpose of adequate control of administrative action without substituting judicial opinion for that of the Tax Court upon the evidence. Note 7, swpra. The illustrations in the report, note 7, supra, are legal questions without doubt, except the possibility that the words “application of the statute or any regulation having the force of law” may be thought to give a reviewing court power to pass upon the Tax Court’s conclusion from the primary or evidential facts. So

**prev_text:**
McLAUGHLIN, Circuit Judge. Petitioner is a Pennsylvania corporation engaged in the manufacture and
sale of flexible couplings. It was organized in 1917. Its president is Millard T. Thomas, who has
been in the coupling business since 1914. By January 6, 1920 Bertha E. Thomas, wife of Millard, had
secured three patents on flexible couplings. Other than her being named as inventor there is no
evidence of any technical knowledge by Mrs. Thomas of flexible couplings. On January 6, 1920 Mr.
Thomas owned 325 shares and Mrs. Thomas 25 shares of the 492 shares represented at the stockholders
meeting of the corporation held that day. As the result of proceedings at that meeting, on March 20,
1920, an agreement was entered into by the company and Mrs. Thomas. Under it she assigned to the
company two of her flexible coupling patents No. 1,323,423 dated December 2, 1919 and No. 1,326,993
dated January 6, 1920 “together with all improvements upon the invention” and “all United States
Letters Patents she now owns on flexible couplings and which may be hereafter granted to her and all
United States Letters Patents on future improvements on flexible couplings which may be obtained or
acquired by her.” Mrs. Thomas retained all rights on said patents and improvements in connection
with automotive vehicles. Mrs. Thomas on her part received 450 shares of the company stock and
royalties of 10% of the gross sales price. On September 2, 1937 she applied for an improvement
patent on flexible couplings which was issued to her December 5, 1939 and numbered 2,182,711. On
August 8, 1939 she applied for a patent relating to an emergency support for flexible couplings.
This was granted August 8, 1941 and is No. 2,251,722. These two inventions were assigned in writing
by Mrs. Thomas to the company on October 26, 1939, which assignment was recorded in the Patent
Office October 27, 1939. On November 26, 1939 the company and Mrs. Thomas entered into a written
contract whereby Mrs. Thomas assigned the last two named patents to the company for $3500. and
certain specified royalties. Patents in pursuance of this agreement were thereafter issued the
company. Any license to make or sell under the letters patent on flexible couplings to be used in
connection with automobiles, trucks and tractors was without value on October 26, 1939 and November
26, 1939. Payments were made to Mrs. Thomas in 1939, 1940 and 1941 under the November 26, 1939
agreement. The Tax Court held that those payments were not ordinary and necessary business expenses
and therefore not deductible from petitioner’s gross income. This finding was arrived at because at
the time of the November 26, 1939 contract, Mrs. Thomas had already agreed by the March 20, 1920
document to assign to the company all United States letters patent granted her on future
improvements on flexible couplings and she had also already assigned in writing to the company on
October 26, 1939 the two patents covered by the royalty agreement of November 26, 1939. The two
patents were improvements on flexible couplings and the March 20, 1920 contract was determined to
have been supported by adequate consideration. The trial consumed three days in New York City and
one day in Washington. Petitioner was represented by experienced counsel. The Court concluded that
the petitioner was under no legal obligation to pay the royalties and that there was no showing of
any exceptional business necessity for making such payments. Petitioner applied to the Tax Court for
rehearing. The main grounds were: (1) Newly discovered evidence that a later oral agreement between
Millard acting for the company, and Mrs. Thomas, superseded the written contract of March 20, 1920
which was rescinded. By the terms of the alleged oral contract Mrs. Thomas was no longer obligated
to assign to the company any patents which might thereafter be granted to her or any patents on
future improvements on flexible couplings. From this the conclusion was drawn that the assignments
of the patents in 1939 being therefor assignments to which the company was not already legally
entitled, they constituted consideration for the agreement of the company to pay Mrs. Thomas the
disputed royalties. (2) That the assignments of the patents on October 26, 1939 were made in
accordance with a contract between the company and Mrs. Thomas in January 1939 with the contract of
November 26, 1939 merely a formal confirmation thereof. In that situation it could not be said that
petitioner was already the owner of the patents (under the assignment of October 26, 1939) when it
contracted to pay the questioned royalties; and (3) evidence that the license in connection with
automobiles, trucks and tractors was not valueless as found by the Court. The Tax Court passing on
the proffer of evidence found the first contention wholly without merit. It observed that Millard
Thomas, alleged to have acted for the company in the January 1939 oral agreement with Mrs. Thomas,
testified extensively in the hearing with no reference to such a contract, and with his testimony
inferentially inconsistent with the existence of such contract. On the third point the Court cited
the evidence which caused it to decide that the automotive license was valueless in 1939. In
addition thereto it held that by the contracts and assignments of 1939 Mrs. Thomas did not
relinquish her license under the March 1920 contract. In view of this the Court held the second
point, namely, proof of an alleged contract in January 1939, was immaterial. Following the denial of
rehearing in the Tax Court, there was a declaratory judgment proceeding as to the November 26, 1939
agreement brought in the Warren County, Pennsylvania, Common Pleas Court by Mrs. Thomas against the
company. In that matter the company defendant admitted the oral agreement to cancel the contracts
with the exception of the continuance of the obligation to pay Mrs. Thomas ten per cent royalties.
It also admitted the informal contract of January 1939. The case was heard on complaint and answer.
The Common Pleas Court sustained plaintiff’s claims. The Pennsylvania Supreme Court affirmed. Thomas
v. Thomas Flexible Coupling Co., 353 Pa. 591, 46 A.2d 212, 217. Justice Jones in a strong dissenting
opinion, noting that the defendant by its answer sought to make a showing of facts more favorable to
the plaintiff’s claim than she herself had averred in her petition, said, “There is certainly no
controversy between the plaintiff and the defendant with respect to the alleged contract and the
rights of the parties thereunder.” He further pointed out that creditors were not interested in the
litigation, the corporation being highly solvent and that stockholders had not only approved the
alleged contract but also volunteered to give the management a vote of confidence. He then said,
“Thus, there is manifestly no one with a penny’s worth of material interest in the subject matter of
this proceeding to contend with anyone else interested materially therein. Consequently, no ‘actual
controversy’ exists.” The only problem in this case is whether the royalty payments to Mrs. Thomas
constituted “ordinary and neces sary expenses” of the company. This is not a question of state law
under Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U.S. 64, 78, 58 S.Ct. 817, 82 L.Ed. 1188, 114 A.L.R. 1487. It is
entirely an issue of federal tax law. For what it was worth, petitioner’s whole case to date has
been passed upon by the Tax Court. On the evidence before it in the original hearing it decided
against the petitioner. On the rehearing motion it considered the entire offer of the petitioner on
the basis that the additional evidence would be as represented, and it concluded that its original
finding should remain undisturbed. The Tax Court obviously labored under no misapprehension of law
in its decision. Under the facts before it and passing upon the credibility of the witnesses it
found that there was no consideration for the royalty agreement, that the royalty payments by the
company were actually voluntary and that they were not ordinary and necessary business expenses. The
contract principles which the Tax Court applied are of course sound Pennsylvania and universal law,
but the evidence and particularly the manner of its presentation was far different in the Tax Court
than in the Common Pleas. It is unnecessary to repeat the radically changed smooth picture given the
state tribunal. From the undisputed facts before it, the Common Pleas, and later the Supreme Court,
held that there the royalty agreement was sufficient under the state law. But that finding in no way
vitiates the Tax Court decision, solidly based on federal tax law, that the payments were not
ordinary and necessary business expenses. That tax law doctrine is the foundation of the United
States Supreme Court’s opinion in Commissioner v. Tower, 66 S.Ct. 532, 536. The partnership issue in
that case was urged as valid under Michigan law. There was no collateral state court finding as
here, but the Supreme Court had such an element very much in mind, Mr. Justice Black saying in the
opinion: “Respondent contends that the partnership arrangement here in question would have been
valid under Michigan law and argues that the Tax Court should consequently have held it valid for
tax purposes also. But the Tax Court in making a final authoritative finding on the question whether
this was a real partnership is not governed by how Michigan law might treat the same circumstances
for purposes of state law. Thus, Michigan could and might decide that the stock-transfer here was
sufficient under state law to pass title to the wife, so that in the event of her death it would
pass to whatever members of her family would be entitled to receive it under Michigan’s law of
descent and distribution. But Michigan cannot by its decisions and laws governing questions over
which it has final say, also decide issues of federal tax law and thus hamper the effective
enforcement of a valid federal tax levied against earned income.” The Court further said: “The
question here is not simply who actually owned a share of the capital attributed to the wife on the
partnership books. A person may be taxed on profits earned from property, where he neither owns nor
controls it. Lucas v. Earl, supra, 281 U.S. 111, 50 S.Ct. 241, 74 L.Ed. 731. The issue is who earned
the income and that issue depends on whether this husband and wife really intended to carry on
business as a partnership. Those issues cannot be decided simply by looking at a single step in a
complicated transaction. To decide who worked for, otherwise created or controlled the income, all
steps in the process of earning the profits must be taken into consideration. See Commissioner v.
Court Holding Co., 324 U.S. 331, 334, 65 S.Ct. 707, 708 [89 L.Ed. 981], Of course, the question of
legal ownership of the capital purportedly contributed by a wife will frequently throw light on the
broader question of whether an alleged partnership is real or pretended. But here the Tax Court’s
findings were supported by a sufficient number of other factors in the transaction, so that we need
not decide whether its holding as to the completeness of the gift was correct. Cf. Helvering v.
Hallock, 309 U.S. 106, 117, 118, 60 S.Ct. 444, 450, 451, 84 L.Ed. 604, 125 A.L.R. 1368; Burnet v.
Wells, 289 U.S. 670, 677, 53 S.Ct. 761, 763, 77 L.Ed. 1439.” “It is the command of the taxpayer over
the income which is the concern of the tax laws. Harrison v. Schaffner, 312 U.S. 579, 581, 582, 61
S.Ct. 759, 85 L.Ed. 1055. And income earned by one person is taxable as his, if given to another for
the donor’s satisfaction. Helvering v. Horst, 311 U.S. 112, 119, 61 S.Ct. 144, 148, 85 L.Ed. 75, 131
A.L.R. 655. It is for this reason, among others, that we said in Helvering v. Clifford, supra, 309
U.S. [331], 335, 60 S.Ct. [554], 556, 84 L.Ed. 788, that transactions between husband and wife
calculated to reduce family taxes should always be subjected to special scrutiny. For if under
circumstances such as those mow before us, the end result of the creation of a husband-wife
partnership, though valid under state laws, is that income produced by the husband’s efforts
continues to be used for the same business and family purposes as before the partnership, failure to
tax it as the husband’s income would frustrate the purpose of 26 U.S.C. § 22(a), 26 U.S.C.A.
Int.Rev.Code, § 22(a).' By the simple expedient of drawing up papers, single tax earnings cannot be
divided into two tax units and surtaxes cannot be thus avoided.” Lusthaus v. Commissioner, 66 S.Ct.
539, 540, a companion case to Tower, concerned much the same circumstances as Tower but under
Pennsylvania law. In the opinion the Supreme Court quoted the Tax Court’s decision below with
approval saying: “It concluded that while the partnership was ‘clothed in the outer garment of legal
respectability’ its existence could not be recognized for income tax purposes.” Petitioner contends
that in addition to Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, supra, Blair v. Commissioner, 300 U.S. 5, 57 S.Ct. 330,
81 L.Ed. 465, controls the point before us. The Blair case while not mentioned in Mr. Justice
Black’s opinion in Tower was certainly considered by the Supreme Court at the time. It is referred
to in Mr. Justice Reed’s dissent in Lusthaus which was argued with the Tower appeal. It is worthy of
attention that Blair v. Commissioner is not cited to uphold the Lusthaus partnership as being valid
under Pennsylvania law but for the proposition that the gift to Mrs. Lusthaus “was a gift of
property which thereafter produced income which was taxable to the donee, as in Blair v.
Commissioner, 300 U.S. 5, 57 S.Ct. 330, 81 L.Ed. 465; * * In the Blair case the determination of the
petitioner’s liability rested entirely upon local law. The pertinent decision of the Illinois court
was prior to the particular Board of Tax Ap-peals_ hearing; it was considered by the Board and was
the sole reason for the Board finding as it did.


