**gold_text:**
. Although McCarthy involved the sale of three pounds, we do not understand that the sale
necessarily must involve such a large quantity to constitute a threat to the security of the
installation especially where, as here, the purchase ostensibly was for the use of several persons.
Also, we are aware of the possible implication by the Court of Military Appeals that a police-
controlled buy can pose no actual threat to the military community. See United States v. Alef, 3
M.J. 414, 418 n. 12 (C.M.A. 1977). Such an interpretation of the Court’s remark would be
inconsistent with its accompanying observation that the sale in Alef did not “appear” to involve a
threat and that the locale of the sale and other circumstances are likewise relevant to the
remoteness or probability that illicit substances will filter back into the military community.
Moreover, this Court’s conclusions that jurisdiction can exist under similar circumstances recently
have been affirmed. See, for example, United States v. Valles-Santana, 54 C.M.R. 383, 389 n. 10, 2
M.J. 1049 (A.C.M.R.1976), aff'd, 4 M.J. 84 (C.M.A. 1977); United States v. Ortiz-Negron, 54 C.M.R.
362, 365 n. 10, 2 M.J. 1038 (A.C.M.R. 1976), aff'd, 4 M.J. 84 (C.M.A.1977).

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
The reference cases reinforce our decision on the jurisdictional issue. In United States v.
McCarthy, 2 M.J. 1049, the Court established that jurisdiction could not rest solely on the military
status of the individuals involved but required a comprehensive analysis of circumstances, adhering
to Relford criteria. Similarly, United States v. Beeker, as cited in 2 M.J. 1038, emphasized the
military's interest in maintaining order within its jurisdiction. Our case parallels Beeker where
on-post negotiations and off-post arrangements were deemed sufficient for military jurisdiction.
Moreover, the case discussed in 3 M.J. 414 highlighted the necessity to evaluate the locale and
context of illicit transactions, emphasizing that on-post negotiations and off-post sales could
still fall under military jurisdiction if they were military in origin and intended usage within the
military community was apparent. Here, the transaction initiated on-post and intended usage on-post
were verified, aligning with McCarthy's emphasis on the military connection.   Thus, consistent with
precedents (2 M.J. 1049, 2 M.J. 1038, and 3 M.J. 414), we uphold the military court's jurisdiction
and affirm the sentence.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
  The reference cases provided, 3 M.J. 414, 2 M.J. 1049, and 2 M.J. 1038, offer valuable insights
into the concept of court-martial jurisdiction. In each case, the court has examined the criteria
for establishing jurisdiction, particularly in cases involving off-post drug offenses.  In 3 M.J.
414, the court held that the sale of marijuana between two service members, though occurring off-
post, was still subject to military jurisdiction due to the military connection. The court
emphasized that the transaction was "engendered by on-post conversations and was military in its
origin, military in its participants, and military in the destination and use of the marijuana."
Similarly, in 2 M.J. 1049, the court found that a service member's sale of heroin to a civilian
undercover agent, though occurring off-post, was still subject to military jurisdiction. The court
noted that the service member's actions were "clearly a violation of military rules and regulations"
and that the military had a strong interest in maintaining the sanctity of its camps, posts, and
stations.  In 2 M.J. 1038, the court examined the issue of jurisdiction in a case involving the sale
of marijuana between two service members, with one being an informant working for the OSI. The court
held that the sale was still subject to military jurisdiction, despite occurring off-post, due to
the military connection.  In conclusion, the reference cases demonstrate that court-martial
jurisdiction can be established even in cases involving off-post drug offenses, so long as there is
a sufficient military connection. The courts have emphasized the importance of maintaining the
sanctity of military installations and the military's interest in regulating the conduct of its
members. Ultimately, the determination of jurisdiction depends on a detailed analysis of the facts
under the criteria established in Relford v. Commandant, 401 U.S. 355, 91 S.Ct. 649, 28 L.Ed.2d 102
(1971).


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['3 M.J. 414', '2 M.J. 1049', '2 M.J. 1038']

***short_citations_0:*** 3 M.J. 414

8, this is a factor to be established, not generalized. . It may well be argued that where one service member sells or transfers contraband narcotics, drugs or marihuana to another service member, it is reasonably foreseeable that those illicit substances will filter back into the military community. Although we certainly do not discount such a possibility, this factor must be weighed in relationship to the locale of the sale or transfer, and such other circumstances as would, in and of themselves, determine the remoteness or probability of such an occurrence. This sale and all the essential underlying negotiations occurred off-post with all indications from the record being that the parties had blended into the civilian community. Further, as the “victim,” Sp5 Hines, in this case, was an informant working for the OSI in a controlled buy, it is beyond cavil that the evidence of record indicates the factual impossibility of the substance being reintroduced into the military community in the manner spoken of in United States v. McCarthy, supra. Additionally, while we recognize the need to consider this possibility in each case, we cannot embrace the “commuter distance” theory which has been offered, nor its corollary that the decision of a commander to disperse military police outside the territorial confines of his installation to participate in attempts to curtail off-post drug activity constitutes indicia of a threat to a military installation sufficient to warrant a finding of court-martial jurisdiction. . As detailed in notes 7, 8, and 10, we

***short_citations_1:*** 2 M.J. 1049

morale and fitness for duty of persons in the armed forces. As a result, the circumstances of no military significance described in O’Callahan as an essential condition for the limitation of court-martial jurisdiction were not previously to be considered present. However, the effect of Beeker, supra, was severely limited by the United States Court of Military Appeals in United States v. McCarthy. In that case the Court was faced with the issue of determining whether military jurisdiction existed where the transfer of three pounds of marijuana by one soldier to another occurred just outside of a post gate at Fort Campbell, Kentucky. The court there concluded jurisdiction could not be predicated solely on military status of the wrongdoer and the victim but, rather, a detailed analysis of the facts under the criteria enunciated in Relford, supra was required. Finding jurisdiction, the Court balanced the Relford factors which indicated military jurisdiction and those not favoring such jurisdiction. In dicta, the court noted that the case was materially different from that in which an off-duty soldier commits a drug offense while blended into the general civilian populace. Turning to the case before us, we believe that we must separate the factual events into the three separate transactions. With regard to the events which occurred on 21 November 1975 and which constituted Specifications 1 and 2 of Charge I, we find criteria 1, 6, 9 and 10 favor military jurisdiction over these specification. Here, the appellant was in a “duty status” on the

***short_citations_2:*** 2 M.J. 1038

urging of the United States Court of Military Appeals, this Court is in the process of re-examining the matter of drug offenses as they are affected by the O’Callahan doctrine. The guiding light provided by United States v. Beeker, 18 U.S.C.M.A. 563, 40 C.M.R. 275 (1969) has been dimmed, if not snuffed, by the United States Court of Military Appeals in its McCarthy opinion and this Court must now approach each case on an ad hoc basis using as a beacon the Relford duodenary rules. These 12 canons have been so oft repeated of late as to be all but a litany, therefore, we won’t duplicate them here. Suffice to say the Relford decision clearly recognized the paramount interest of the military in maintaining the sanctity of its camps, posts and stations against the presence of criminal activities. While it is true beyond cavil that the sale for which appellant was tried was ultimately consummated in Colorado Springs, a place not under military control, it cannot be said with equal certainty that that location is where the crime was committed. Appellant, clearly evidenced during the on-post negotiations his assention to Velasco’s request to buy some heroin. His only reservation concerned his ability to find some of the drug. We find, therefore, that a sufficient portion of the transaction occurred on post to justify a conclusion that the sale was “committed” on post. Furthermore, the fact that the purchaser was a civilian undercover agent does not, in our view, diminish one

**prev_text:**
OPINION OF THE COURT FULTON, Senior Judge: The appellant, stationed at Fort Campbell, Kentucky,
pleaded guilty to and was convicted of selling marijuana “at Montgomery County, Tennessee,” which
bounds the southeast portion of the post. The military judge, sitting as a special court-martial,
sentenced him to a bad-conduct discharge, confinement at hard labor for four months, forfeiture of
$240.00 pay per month for four months, and reduction to the grade of Private E—1. The convening
authority approved the sentence. On appeal as well as at the trial, appellant contests the court’s
jurisdiction over the offense on the basis that there was insufficient service connection. See
United States v. McCarthy, 25 U.S.C.M.A. 30, 54 C.M.R. 30, 2 M.J. 26 (1976). He also asserts that
Article 54(c) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice, 10 U.S.C. § 854(c), was violated by his
removal from Fort Campbell (to the United States Disciplinary Barracks at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas)
shortly after the trial and before the convening authority’s action. In the exercise of our
responsibilities under Article 66 of the Code, we also note issues concerning the adequacy of the
judge’s plea bargain inquiry (United States v. Green, 24 U.S.C.M.A. 299, 52 C.M.R. 10, 1 M.J. 453
(1976)) and the admissibility of records of prior nonjudicial punishment (United States v. Booker, 3
M.J. 443 (C.M.A. 1977), opinion modified, 4 M.J. 95 (C.M.A. 1977)). The jurisdictional issue in this
case involves an increasingly familiar scenario. A fellow member of the appellant’s battery, working
as an informer for the installation’s drug suppression unit, observed the appellant with
approximately one pound of marijuana in the unit area. He told the appellant that he had a “friend”
(in reality a military police investigator (MPI)) who wanted to buy some marijuana and he
interpreted the appellant’s response as an open invitation to visit the appellant’s off-post trailer
home for that purpose at any time. About a week later, without more specific arrangements, the
informer and the MPI visited the appellant’s trailer in a trailer park about seven miles from Fort
Campbell near Clarksville, Tennessee, arriving after the appellant seemingly had retired for the
night. They informed the appellant that they wished to buy marijuana to use at a party on the
installation. He withdrew several packets of marijuana from his refrigerator. His customers selected
two and the investigator paid the appellant $40.00. The trial judge denied appellant’s motion to
dismiss for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction. We agree with his implicit rejection of the
appellant’s version of the transaction, but still face the question whether the prosecution’s
version, when measured against the criteria established in Relford v. Commandant, 401 U.S. 355, 91
S.Ct. 649, 28 L.Ed.2d 102 (1971), supports military jurisdiction. We hold that it does. The informer
and the appellant were members of the same unit and had a duty relationship. The appellant was seen
to possess the drug on the post. The intent to sell drugs to the informer’s friend was formed and
expressed on post. Only payment and delivery remained to be accomplished, and that alone was
accomplished away from the installation. It was done under circumstances in which the appellant knew
or had reason to believe that the usage of the drug would occur on the installation. The appellant’s
drug transaction was engendered by on-post conversations and was military in its origin, military in
its participants, and military in the destination and use of the marijuana, so far as the seller
knew. Only the land on which it was consummated was not under military jurisdiction. We believe,
therefore, that this was a transaction in which the military interest in deterrence was distinct
from and greater than that of the civilian jurisdiction and in which that interest could not
adequately be vindicated by the civilian courts. Having resolved the jurisdictional issue against
the appellant, we necessarily turn to the remaining issues. As to the supplementally assigned error,
the Court of Military Appeals has not found error in the incarceration of an accused at another
place before the convening authority’s action on the record. See, for example, United States v.
Cruz-Rijos, 24 U.S.C.M.A. 271, 274, 51 C.M.R. 723, 726, 1 M.J. 429, 432 (1976). Even were that Court
to change its view (see United States v. Vick, 3 M.J. 266 (C.M.A.1977) (order granting petition for
review)), we think that remedial action would require a showing of specific prejudice, of which
there is none here. We also hold that the military judge’s inquiry concerning the plea bargain fully
satisfied the requirements of United States v. Green, supra. He did not literally ask whether his
interpretation of the agreement comported with counsel’s understanding of its meaning and effect.
Presumably this was because there could be no difference: the entire agreement consisted only of one
short paragraph which recited the appellant’s offer to plead guilty to one specification and the
convening authority’s agreement to withdraw the other two specifications and limit any confinement
imposed to a four-month term. There were no other requirements (such as for a stipulation) and no
“understandings” (such as a list of contingencies that might annul the agreement) involved. The
record expressly indicates that there were no other, unwritten, agreements to be interpreted and
understood. A question as to the admissibility of a record of non-judicial punishment imposed on the
appellant for an earlier offense arises because of the Court of Military Appeals’ decision in United
States v. Booker, supra. That Court has not yet addressed the question of Booker’s retroactivity,
but we have done so in several unpublished opinions. In our view, the same reasons that militated
against according retroactivity to United States v. Courtney, 24 U.S.C.M.A. 280, 51 C.M.R. 796, 1
M.J. 438 (1976), are operative here. See United States v. Jackson, 3 M.J. 101 (C.M.A.1977). In
particular, we note that Middendorf v. Henry, 425 U.S. 25, 96 S.Ct. 1281, 47 L.Ed.2d 556 (1976), did
not specifically call into question the admissibility of records of non judicial punishment and that
countless such records have been admitted under service regulations implementing paragraph 75 d of
the Manual for Courts-Martial, United States, 1969 (Revised edition). Accordingly, we rest our
decision on the nonapplicability of Booker to trials occurring before that decision and we do not
seek to divine its requirements as to records of nonjudicial punishment. The findings of guilty and
the sentence are affirmed. Judge MOUNTS and Judge TALIAFERRO concur. . The investigator testified
that he did this routinely in off-post drug purchases “to establish the military connection.” The
appellant testified that, at the outset, he had not even wanted to discuss any drug transaction with
the informant because “I don’t believe I should carry on with any kind of stuff like that on the
military reservation.” He also testified that, when they came to his trailer, he believed that the
informer and his friend wanted the marijuana for an off-post party with some civilian girls and that
he specifically warned them not to take the marijuana onto the military installation.


