**gold_text:**
While this Court might dismiss this action subject to conditions that would assure the plaintiff of
a fair hearing, Mizokami Bros. of Ariz v. Mobay Chemical Corp., 660 F.2d 712, 719 (8th Cir.1981),
neither plaintiff nor defendant has demonstrated the relative advantage in convenience that another
forum, compared to this one, would provide. Overseas Programming Companies v. Cinematographische
Commerz-Anstalt, 684 F.2d 232, 235 (2d Cir.1982). The selection of a South American country as an
alternative forum, although it would afford greater expertise in applying relevant legal principles,
would seem to involve considerable hardship and inconvenience for both parties. A British forum
might similarly provide some advantages in the construction of relevant law, however, it would
impose additional hardships upon defendant, and would raise questions, as would the South American
forum, regarding enforceability of a resulting judgment. See American Rice, Inc. v. Arkansas Rice
Growers Co-op. Ass’n., 701 F.2d 408, 417 (5th Cir.1983). Where the balance does not tip strongly in
favor of an alternative forum it is well-established that the plaintiff’s choice of forum should not
be disturbed.

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
In considering the defendant’s forum non conveniens argument, it is pertinent to adhere to the
established guiding principles. In Gulf Oil Co. v. Gilbert, the Supreme Court delineated the private
and public interest factors to be weighed (684 F.2d 232). These include the relative ease of access
to sources of proof, availability of compulsory process for attendance of unwilling witnesses, and
the cost of obtaining attendance of willing witnesses. Additionally, the public interests encompass
administrative burdens on local courts and the community’s interest in having localized disputes
settled at home.  However, in this case, the inconveniences cited by the defendant do not outweigh
the plaintiff’s choice of forum. As noted in Piper Aircraft Co. v. Reyno, “[t]he doctrine leaves
much to the discretion of the court... unless the balance is strongly in favor of the defendant, the
plaintiff’s choice of forum should rarely be disturbed” (701 F.2d 408). The mere involvement of
foreign law and witnesses does not constitute sufficient grounds for dismissal, particularly given
the lack of an alternative forum where the defendant is subject to personal jurisdiction (660 F.2d
712).  Hence, defendant’s motion to dismiss on the grounds of forum non conveniens is denied, as the
balance of convenience does not strongly favor the defendant. The plaintiff should not be relegated
to a foreign court given the circumstances.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
 <answer> In considering the dismissal of a lawsuit on grounds of forum non conveniens, courts must
weigh the private and public interests involved. In this case, the private interests of the parties
include the relative ease of access to sources of proof, the availability of compulsory process for
attendance of unwilling witnesses, and other matters affecting the cost, speed, and ease of
litigating the suit in a particular forum. Additionally, the public interests to be considered
include the administrative burdens imposed on already congested courts by suits that are properly
centered elsewhere, and the burden of jury duty on members of a community with no real relation to
the dispute.  As noted in reference case 660 F.2d 712, the court must evaluate the enforceability of
a judgment rendered by it, weigh relative advantages and obstacles to a fair trial, and determine
whether the plaintiff has instituted suit in a particular forum with the intent to vex or harass the
defendant. Similarly, in reference case 684 F.2d 232, the court must consider the private and public
interests involved, including the relative ease of access to sources of proof, the availability of
compulsory process for attendance of unwilling witnesses, and other matters affecting the cost,
speed, and ease of litigating the suit in a particular forum.  In this case, the court concludes
that the balance of convenience weighs so heavily against trial of the claims in Missouri that the
action should be dismissed. The court recognizes that the witnesses are largely in Mexico and that
it would be impossible or prohibitively expensive to obtain their attendance in Missouri.
Furthermore, the court notes that issues of Mexican law would predominate in the trial, and that the
Missouri court's unfamiliarity with Mexican law would present another obstacle to a fair and
expeditious trial in Missouri.  Finally, in reference case 701 F.2d 408, the court emphasizes that
the doctrine of forum non conveniens leaves much to the discretion of the court. Unless the balance
is strongly in favor of the defendant, the plaintiff's choice of forum should rarely be disturbed.
In this case, the court finds that the defendant has not carried its burden of showing that the
district court abused its discretion in refusing to dismiss the suit on forum non conveniens
grounds.  In conclusion, the court's decision to dismiss the lawsuit on grounds of forum non
conveniens is supported by the private and public interests involved, including the relative ease of
access to sources of proof, the availability of compulsory process for attendance of unwilling
witnesses, and


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['660 F.2d 712', '684 F.2d 232', '701 F.2d 408']

***short_citations_0:*** 660 F.2d 712

that most of the witnesses are in Mexico and that it would be impossible or prohibitively expensive to obtain their attendance in Missouri. Because many of the witnesses are Spanish-speaking and many of the documents are written in Spanish, trial in Missouri would require extensive translations. The court also concluded that issues of Mexican law would predominate in the trial. The Missouri court’s unfamiliarity with Mexican law would present another obstacle to a fair and expeditious trial in Missouri. Mizokami urges that Mobay has not proved that Missouri would be a clearly inconvenient forum. Appellant notes that Mobay manufactured a key ingredient of the insecticide at its plant in Missouri. Mo-bay also distributed literature from Missouri regarding the production and recommended uses of the insecticide. Mizokami adds that Mobay employees familiar with these activities, as well as documents relating to the manufacture of Tamaron, will be found in Missouri. This is perhaps a closer case than the district court suggested; nonetheless, we find that the dismissal was not an abuse of discretion. The court recognized and applied the controlling Gilbert criteria. The conclusion that the balance of convenience weighs so heavily against trial of the claims in Missouri that the action should be dismissed was permissible. Panama Processes, S. A. v. Cities Service Co., 650 F.2d 408, 414-15 (2d Cir. 1981); Calavo Growers v. Belgium, 63.2 F.2d 963, 968 (2d Cir. 1980), cert. denied, 449 U.S. 1084, 101 S.Ct. 871, 66 L.Ed.2d 809 (1981); J. F. Pritchard & Co. v.

***short_citations_1:*** 684 F.2d 232

granted defendants’ motion to dismiss the action on the ground of forum non conveniens, and Overseas appeals. In Gulf Oil Co. v. Gilbert, supra, 330 U.S. at 508-09, 67 S.Ct. at 843, the Supreme Court articulated the private and public interests that a court must weigh in deciding whether a plaintiff’s choice of forum should be rejected on grounds of forum non conveniens. Among a litigant’s private interests to be considered are the “relative ease of access to sources of proof,” the “availability of compulsory process for attendance of unwilling, and the cost of obtaining attendance of willing, witnesses,” and other matters affecting the cost, speed, and ease of litigating a suit in a particular forum. Furthermore, a court must evaluate the enforceability of a judgment rendered by it, “weigh relative advantages and obstacles to fair trial,” and determine whether the plaintiff has instituted suit in a particular forum With the intent to vex or harass the defendant. Id. at 508, 67 S.Ct. at 843. The public interests to be considered include the administrative burdens imposed on already congested courts by suits that are properly centered elsewhere and the burden of jury duty on members of a community with no real relation to the dispute. The Court stated that a community has an interest in having “localized controversies decided at home.” Id at 509, 67 S.Ct. at 843. Finally, the Court noted that “[tjhere is an appropriateness ... in having the trial of a diversity case in a forum that

***short_citations_2:*** 701 F.2d 408

trial court should also look to “public interest” factors such as the burden created for local court calendars and local juries by trials having no connection with the forum. The Court stressed that “[t]he doctrine leaves much to the discretion of the court.... But unless the balance is strongly in favor of the defendant, the plaintiff’s choice of forum should rarely be disturbed”. Id. We conclude that Riceland has failed to shoulder the heavy burden imposed by Gilbert of showing that the district court abused its discretion when it refused to dismiss the suit on forum non conveniens grounds. That some of the evidence and witnesses are located in Saudi Arabia will certainly add to Riceland’s expense and inconvenience in defending this suit. But the facts are insufficient to relegate an American plaintiff to a foreign court when American law, rather than foreign law, is applicable. Here a United States corporation seeks relief under the trademark and unfair competition laws of this country to enjoin unlawful acts committed here and abroad by another United States corporation. These facts alone convince us that the district court did not abuse its discretion when it denied the defendant’s motion. Piper Aircraft Co. v. Reyno, 1981, 454 U.S. 235, 102 S.Ct. 252, 70 L.Ed.2d 419, is not to the contrary. There the factors supporting the foreign forum were far more substantial than they are in this case: Scottish and English citizens died in an accident in Scotland in an aircraft owned and operated by

**prev_text:**
ROBERT L. CARTER, District Judge. This case presents a novel question of law. Plaintiff, London Film
Productions, Ltd. (“London”), a British corporation, has sued Intercontinental Communications, Inc.
(“ICI”), a New York corporation based in New York City, for infringements of plaintiffs British
copyright. The alleged infringements occurred in Chile and other South American countries. In
bringing the ease before this Court, plaintiff has invoked the Court’s diversity jurisdiction. 28
U.S.C. § 1332(a)(2). Defendant has moved to dismiss plaintiff’s complaint, arguing that the Court
should abstain from exercising jurisdiction over this action. Background London produces feature
motion pictures in Great Britain, which it then distributes throughout the world. ICI specializes in
the licensing of motion pictures, produced by others, that it believes are in the public domain.
London’s copyright infringement claim is based mainly on license agreements between ICI and Dilatsa
S.A., a buying agent for Chilean television stations. The agreements apparently granted the latter
the right to distribute and exhibit certain of plaintiff’s motion pictures on television in Chile.
London also alleges that ICI has marketed several of its motion pictures in Venezuela, Peru,
Equador, Costa Rica and Panama, as well as in Chile. Plaintiff alleges that the films that are the
subjects of the arrangements between Dilatsa S.A. and defendant are protected by copyright in Great
Britain as well as in Chile and most other countries (but not in the United States) by virtue of the
terms and provisions of the Berne Convention. The license agreements, it maintains, have unjustly
enriched defendants and deprived plaintiff of the opportunity to market its motion pictures for
television use. Defendant questions this Court’s jurisdiction because plaintiff has not alleged any
acts of wrongdoing on defendant’s part that constitute violations of United States law, and,
therefore, defendant claims that this Court lacks a vital interest in the suit. In addition,
assuming jurisdiction, defendant argues that because the Court would have to construe “alien treaty
rights,” with which it has no familiarity, the suit would violate, in principle, the doctrine of
forum non conveniens. In further support of this contention, defendant maintains that the law would
not only be foreign, but complex, since plaintiff’s claims would have to be determined with
reference to each of the South American states in which the alleged copyright infringements
occurred. Determination There seems to be no dispute that plaintiff has stated a valid cause of
action under the copyright laws of a foreign country. Also clear is the fact that this Court has
personal jurisdiction over defendant; in fact, there is no showing that defendant may be subject to
personal jurisdiction in another forum; Under these circumstances, one authority on copyright law
has presented an argument pursuant to which this Court has jurisdiction to hear the mat- ter before
it. M. Nimmer, 3 Nimmer on Copyright, (1982). It is based on the theory that copyright infringement
constitutes a transitory cause of action, and hence may be adjudicated in the courts of a sovereign
other than the one in which the cause of action arose. Id. at § 1703. That theory appears sound in
the absence of convincing objections by defendant to the contrary. Although plaintiff has not
alleged the violation of any laws of this country by defendant, this Court is not bereft of interest
in this case. The Court has an obvious interest in securing compliance with this nation’s laws by
citizens of foreign nations who have dealings within this jurisdiction. A concern with the conduct
of American citizens in foreign countries is merely the reciprocal of that interest. An
unwillingness by this Court to hear a complaint against its own citizens with regard to a violation
of foreign law will engender, it would seem, a similar unwillingness on the part of a foreign
jurisdiction when the question arises concerning a violation of our laws by one of its citizens who
has since left our jurisdiction. This Court’s interest in adjudicating the controversy in this case
may be indirect, but its importance is not thereby diminished. Of course, not every violation of
foreign law by a citizen of this country must be afforded a local tribunal, and defendants cite
several cases in which, basically under general principles of comity, it would be inappropriate for
this Court to exercise its jurisdiction. Cf. Kalmich v. Bruno, 404 F.Supp. 57, 61 (N.D.Ill.1975),
rev’d on other grounds, 553 F.2d 549 (7th Cir.1977), cert. denied, 434 U.S. 940, 98 S.Ct. 432, 54
L.Ed.2d 300 (1977). This is not one of those. The line of cases on which defendants rely can be
distinguished on significant points. The Court in Vanity Fair Mills, Inc. v. T. Eaton, Ltd., 234
F.2d 633 (2d Cir.) cert. denied, 352 U.S. 871, 77 S.Ct. 96, 1 L.Ed.2d 76 (1956), the principal case
of those cited, found that the district court had not abused its discretion in declining to assume
jurisdiction over a claim for acts of alleged trademark infringement and unfair competition arising
in Canada under Canadian law. As defendant here has acknowledged, the complaint raised a “crucial
issue” as to the validity of Canadian trademark law. This factor weighed heavily in the Court’s
decision. We do not think it the province of United States district courts to determine the validity
of trademarks which officials of foreign countries have seen fit to grant. To do so would be to
welcome conflicts with the administrative and judicial officers of the Dominion Canada. Id. at 647.
But as Nimmer has noted, “[i]n adjudicating an infringement action under a foreign copyright law
there is ... no need to pass upon the validity of acts of foreign government officials,” 3 Nimmer,
supra, at § 1703, since foreign copyright laws, by and large, do not incorporate administrative
formalities which must be satisfied to create or perfect a copyright. Id. The facts in this case
confirm the logic of Nimmer’s observation. The British films at issue here received copyright
protection in Great Britain simply by virtue of publication there. Copinger, Law of Copyright, (9th
ed. 1958), 21 et seq. Chile’s adherence to the Berne Convention in 1970 automatically conferred
copyright protection on these films in Chile. Therefore, no “act of state” is called into question
here. Moreover, there is no danger that foreign courts will be forced to accept the inexpert
determination of this Court, nor that this Court will create “an unseemly conflict with the judgment
of another country.” See Packard Instrument Co. v. Beckman Instruments, Inc., 346 F.Supp. 408, 410
(N.D.Ill. 1972). The litigation will determine only whether an American corporation has acted in
violation of a foreign copyright, not whether such copyright exists, nor whether such copyright is
valid. With respect to defendant’s forum non conveniens argument, it is true that this case will
likely involve the construction of at least one, if not several foreign laws. However, the need to
apply foreign law is not in itself reason to dismiss or transfer the case. Manu Int’l S.A. v. Avon
Products, Inc., 641 F.2d 62, 67-68 (2d Cir.1981). Moreover, there is no foreign forum in which
defendant is the subject of personal jurisdiction, and an available forum is necessary to validate
dismissal of an action on the ground of forum non conveniens, for if there is no alternative forum
“the plaintiff might find himself with a valid claim but nowhere to assert it.” Farmanfarmaian v.
Gulf Oil Corp., 437 F.Supp. 910, 915 (S.D.N.Y.1977) (Carter, J.), aff'd, 588 F.2d 880 (2d Cir.1978).


