**gold_text:**
. Curtis Publishing, Co. v. Vaughan, 107 U.S.App.D.C. 343, 278 F.2d 23, cert. denied, 364 U.S. 822,
81 S.Ct. 57, 5 L.Ed. 2d 51 (1960); Sullivan v. Meyer, 78 U.S.App.D.C. 367, 141 F.2d 21, cert.
denied, 322 U.S. 743, 64 S.Ct. 1145, 88 L.Ed. 1575 (1944); Restatement oe Torts § 582 (1938) ; see
Somerville v. Acacia Mut. Life Ins. Co., 80 U.S.App.D.C. 144, 149 F.2d 836 (1945); Potts v. Dies, 77
U.S.App.D.C. 92, 132 F.2d 734, cert. denied, 319 U.S. 762, 63 S.Ct. 1316, 87 L.Ed. 1713 (1942).

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
Our conclusion is reinforced by precedent cases. In Afro-American Publishing Co. v. Jaffe, the court
held that defamatory content must be construed in the manner that the average reader would
understand it (278 F.2d 23). In this case, the defamatory nature of Lowery’s letter is evident, as
it questions appellant’s professional and personal integrity within his community. Furthermore, as
underscored in the case at 132 F.2d 734, even expressions of unfavorable opinions, when stated as
fact, can meet the criteria of defamation if they imply false factual assertions. Here, the
allegations about appellant’s refusal to sell the house and failure to make payments, even when
attributed to Mrs. Olinger, are susceptible to defamatory interpretation. These statements
necessitate factual verification, placing them squarely within the jury’s purview. Therefore, the
issues at hand demand further judicial examination to ascertain both the factual accuracy and the
defamatory impact of the published letter.  So ordered.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
  The libel case at hand involves a letter written by appellee to appellant's commanding officer,
allegedly damaging his reputation and causing him emotional distress. The letter, which forms the
basis of this action, contains several defamatory statements regarding appellant's personal life and
financial transactions.  In determining the meaning of the words in the publication, we must
consider whether the average reader would understand them in the same way as appellee. By reading
the letter as a whole, including its display lines, we can infer that appellee intended to convey
that appellant was unwilling to permit his former wife to sell the house and was not keeping the
payments current on the first and second trusts.  The Supreme Court has held that "the gravamen of
the action is not whether the quotation from 'Southern Progress' is false but whether the
characterization of the appellant as a Nazi Trojan Horse is false." Similarly, in the instant case,
the question is not whether the statements in the letter are true or false, but whether they are
capable of defamatory meaning and whether they damaged appellant's reputation.  As noted in
reference case 132 F.2d 734, repetition of a defamatory statement is a publication in itself,
regardless of whether the repeater names the source. In this case, appellee's letter repeats the
defamatory statements attributed to Mrs. Olinger, and it is for the jury to determine whether these
statements were so understood by the recipients of the letter and whether they are, in fact, true.
In conclusion, the libel case at hand presents a genuine issue of material fact, and we remand for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. The issue of whether the statements in the
letter are capable of defamatory meaning and whether they damaged appellant's reputation must be
determined by the jury.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-finetuned:***
  . See also, e. g., Curtis Publishing Co. v. Butts, 127 U.S.App.D.C. 142, 146, 381 F.2d 733, 737
(en banc, 1967); Time, Inc. v. Hill, 385 U.S. 374, 87 S.Ct. 534, 17 L.Ed.2d 456 (1967). We note that
the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia has recently held that a statement of opinion,
even if it is not actionable per se, may be actionable if it is made with actual malice. See, e. g.,
Washington Post Co. v. Keogh, 125 U.S.App.D.C. 26, 365 F.2d 368 (en banc, 1966); Washington Post Co.
v. Keogh, 132 F.2d 734, 737 (en banc, 1942). See also, e. g., New York Times Co. v. Sullivan, 376
U.S. 254, 84 S.Ct. 710, 11 L.Ed.2d 686 (1964). However, in the instant case, we are concerned only
with the question whether the statement in question is capable of being understood as defamatory.
See, e. g., 278 F.2d 23, 26 (en banc, 1960); 132 F.2d 734, 736 (en banc, 1942). We hold that it is.
See also, e. g., 125 U.S.App.D.C. 70, 75, 366 F.2d 649, 654 (en banc, 1966). We therefore remand for
further proceedings. See also, e. g., Afro-American Publishing Co. v. Jaffe, 125 U.S.App.D.C. 70,
75, 366 F.2d 649, 654 (en banc, 1966). See also, e. g., 127 U.S.App.D.C. 142, 146, 381 F.2d 733, 737
(en banc, 1967). See also, e. g., Time, Inc. v. Hill, 385 U.S. 374, 87 S.Ct. 534, 17 L.Ed.2d 456
(1967). See also, e. g


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['278 F.2d 23', '132 F.2d 734']

***short_citations_0:*** 278 F.2d 23

guilty of malfeasances in office, and was meant and intended to hold Plaintiff in contempt in the eyes of the people of the District of Columbia and throughout the United States.” The Curtis Publishing Company placed a very different construction upon the allegedly defamatory matter. As the trial record shows, its position as to the meaning to be ascribed to the language in question was summed up in a proposed instruction submitted to the trial judge. The publisher there contended “that the caption, reasonably construed, would tend to be understood by the ordinary, average reader to mean that Pearson had charged General Vaughan with having interceded with Government agencies and departments on behalf of friends and ‘five percenters’ or lobbyists, and those whom they represented, and with thus having used, or permitted them to use, the great prestige of the White House, as derived from its privileged position as an important member of its staff, in obtaining or attempting to obtain special treatment for themselves or those whom they represented.” Where the meaning of the words of the publication is in dispute, an issue of fact arises and must be determined by the jury. The publication “ ‘must be read and construed in the sense in which the readers to whom it is addressed would ordinarily understand it. So the whole item, including display lines, should be read and construed together, and its meaning and signification thus determined. * * * if * * * it is capable of two

***short_citations_1:*** 132 F.2d 734

The complaint therefore concedes that appellee quoted the magazine correctly. As appellant puts it in his brief, “the gravamen of the action is not whether the quotation from ‘Southern Progress’ is false but whether the characterization of the appellant as a Nazi Trojan Horse is false.” The “Nazi Trojan Horse” metaphor, like most metaphors, is not a proposition of fact. Unlike many metaphors it implies, in its context, no proposition of fact which the context does not state. In some contexts, no doubt, Nazi Trojan Horse might mean a concealed participant in an armed Nazi invasion. But appellee clearly did not mean that. To praise Hitler, appellee plainly implied, is to be a sort of Nazi Trojan Horse. It follows that this sort of Nazi Trojan Horse is nothing more nor less than one who praises Hitler. Obviously, Southern Progress did “laud the achievements of Adolf Hitler.” It follows that appellee neither said nor implied anything false. No doubt “Nazi Trojan Horse” is a term of reproach. It expresses an unfavorable opinion of appellant’s publication and perhaps of appellant as its publisher, because they praised Hitler, including an opinion that such praise shows Nazi sympathies. But in this context it expresses nothing more. Published work is of public interest. It is well settled that fair criticism or comment on matters of public interest is not actionable in the absence of “malice,” i. e., bad faith or a bad motive. This defense covers statements which are neither false nor demonstrably true.

**prev_text:**
PER CURIAM: This action was brought to recover damages stemming from an alleged libel, invasion of
privacy, and malicious interference with peace of mind. The District Court granted appellee’s motion
for summary judgment. We remand solely on the libel theory. The facts, viewed in the light most
favorable to appellant, are as follows. Appellant, a career Air Force officer, was divorced from his
wife in January 1966. By the terms of the decree, he was ordered to make support and alimony
payments totaling $550 per month. A deed of trust, held by appellee, on the couple’s former house in
Maryland obligated both appellant and his former wife. Subsequent to the divorce, however, the
couple agreed orally that Mrs. Olinger would continue to live in the house and would keep up the
payments on it. After remarrying, appellant was transferred to Germany. Although he regularly made
his support and alimony payments, the deed of trust payments fell into arrears. After several
telephone conversations with the former Mrs. Olinger, appellee instructed the trustees to foreclose
on the property. They so informed both appellant and his former wife and initiated the necessary
legal proceedings. Upon receiving notification of the impending foreclosure, appellant, through his
attorney, informed appellee that he would be willing to effectuate a friendly sale of the property.
In subsequent conversations with appellant’s attorney, appellee’s representative (Lowery) accused
appellant of leaving the country without providing for his family and of having adulterous
relationships. He also stated his intention, based on the advice of a retired Air Force Colonel, to
write a letter concerning these matters to appellant’s commanding officer, though he conceded that
the value of the property exceeded the balance due on the loan. Despite the attorney’s objections,
Lowery did write such a letter, the substance of which forms the basis of this action. It stated:
Dear Sir: On or about November 8, 1962 then Major Harold R. Olinger and his wife Betty purchased
property at 7526 Juliette Drive, Clinton, Maryland, at which time this Association placed a first
trust in the amount of $18,450.00. On or about January 7, 1966 Col. Olinger and Betty Olinger were
divorced. Mrs. Olinger charged Col. Olinger with adultery. About this same time Col. Olinger was
assigned to his present assignment in Germany and subsequently he remarried to a former employee who
worked at Andrews Air Force Base where he was stationed. For some unexplained reason, the attorney’s
[sic] for both parties did not require their clients to agree to property settlement. Mrs. Olinger
reports that she has been receiving $550.00 per month, of which $150 was alimony and $100 for each
of her four children. She was unable to carry the mortgage payments on the first trust in the amount
of $150 per month plus second trust monthly payments reportedly to be $225.00. Mrs. Olinger reports
that Col. Olinger is unwilling to permit her to sell the property and he will not keep the payments
current on the first and second trust. Presently, the first trust is in default for 5 months. We
have been instructed by Col. Mc-Farlan, retired, Field representative for the Mortgage Guarantee
Insurance Corporation to so notify you of Col. Olingers’ [sic] circumstances and for you to urge him
to either grant his former wife the right and power to consummate a friendly sale or to voluntarily
convey the aforesaid property back to this Association or to M.G.I.C. providing there are no other
Junior liens beside the second trust. It is with much reluctance we have seen fit to take these
steps of writing to you, but foreclosure is imminent. This property may be sold within the next 30
days at public auction. Sincerely /s/ H. H. Lowery Ass’t Sec’y Copies of the letter apparently were
sent to an Air Force Personnel Office in Texas and to appellant’s loan insurer in Wisconsin.
Appellant was called before his superior officers in Germany to account for the charges contained in
the letter. The embarrassment and humiliation of this experience and of other comments and
discussion regarding the letter allegedly aggravated appellant’s pre-existing nervous condition,
resulting in his hospitalization. Although summary judgment was properly granted as to appellant’s
invasion of privacy and malicious interference theories, we conclude that the facts, viewed in this
light, would support a verdict in appellant’s favor on the libel theory. In this jurisdiction, a
publication is considered defamatory “if it tends to injure plaintiff in his trade, profession or
community standing, or lower him in the estimation of the community.” Appellee, while not here
contesting the defamatory nature of the publication, has taken great pains to demonstrate the truth
of each and every statement in the letter. Truth, of course, is a complete defense to a charge of
libel. It is clear, however, that at least one of the statements in the letter wes “true” only
because it was prefaced by “Mrs. Olinger reports that * * Appellant has asserted that he was willing
to effectuate a friendly sale of the house and, indeed, that Lowery had been made aware of this
intention. He further asserts that he and his former wife had reached an agreement whereby she was
to keep up the payments on the house. Nonetheless Lowery’s letter included the following recital:
“Mrs. Olinger reports that Col. Olinger is unwilling to permit her to sell the property and he will
not keep the payments current on the first and second trust.” The law affords no protection to those
who couch their libel in the form of reports or repetition. In the first place repetition of a
defamatory statement is a publication in itself, regardless whether the repeater names the source.
As a corollary, and more germane to the instant case, the repeater cannot defend on the ground of
truth simply by proving that the source named did, in fact, utter the statement. To quote the
Restatement of Torts: When one person repeats a defamatory statement which he attributes to some
other person, it is not enough for the person who repeats it to prove that the statement was made by
the other person. He must prove the truth of the defamatory charges which he has thus repeated. The
statement in question contains two charges: (1) that appellant was unwilling to permit his former
wife to sell the house, and (2) that he was not keeping the payments current on the first and second
trusts. It is apparent that both charges are at least capable of defamatory meaning. It is for the
jury to determine whether the statement was so understood by the recipients of the letter and
whether the charges it contains are, in fact, true. Since these are genuine issues of material fact,
we remand for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. So ordered. . Afro-American
Publishing Co. v. Jaffe, 125 U.S.App.D.C. 70, 75, 366 F.2d 649, 654 (en banc, 1966).


