**gold_text:**
The amendment to Rule 25(a) (1) was intended to dispel unwarranted rigidity and allow more
flexibility in substitution. “It was intended that liberal effect be given to the 1963 amendment.”
Roscoe v. Roscoe, 126 U.S.App.D.C. 317, 322, 379 F.2d 94, 99 (1967). “[T]he 90 day period was not
intended to act as a bar to otherwise meritorious actions.” Staggers v. Otto Gerdau Co., 359 F.2d
292, 296 (2d Cir. 1966).

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
This stringent interpretation contrasts sharply with the intent of the 1963 amendments to Rule 25
and Rule 6(b), which aimed to inject flexibility and fairness into the substitution process. As
noted in 379 F.2d 94 and 359 F.2d 292, the amendments were designed to eliminate the inequities and
hardships caused by the rigid two-year limitation originally imposed. The Advisory Committee
emphasized that the revised rules were to be liberally construed to allow courts discretion in
extending the substitution period, recognizing the difficulties that could arise in promptly
identifying and notifying the proper representative of the deceased.   Given this context, the
defendant’s counsel's suggestion of death, which lacked identification of a proper representative,
failed to initiate the 90-day countdown. This interpretation aligns with the judicial precedent that
courts should prioritize the equitable administration of justice over strict procedural formalities.
Thus, the district court erred in dismissing the plaintiffs' action without granting the requested
extension, especially considering the circumstances that inhibited timely substitution, such as the
injury to plaintiffs' counsel and the ongoing legal processes in the probate court.  We, therefore,
reverse the judgment and remand for further proceedings consistent with this opinion, ensuring that
the substitution process adheres to the flexible and just principles intended by the amendments to
the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.


**Label:** 9, 5


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
  In the context of Rule 25(a) (1) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, the suggestion of death
is a crucial step in the process of substituting a deceased party with a proper representative.
However, not all suggestions of death are created equal. In cases where the suggestion of death is
made by a party's attorney, but fails to identify a successor or representative of the deceased, the
90-day period for substitution may not be triggered.  As noted in 359 F.2d 292, the Advisory
Committee on Civil Rules intended to provide a more flexible standard for substitution, allowing for
extensions of time and dispensing with the rigid two-year period previously in place. However, this
flexibility is contingent upon the suggestion of death providing sufficient information to permit
the court to proceed with substitution.  In the present case, the suggestion of death made by the
defendant's attorney was deficient in that it failed to identify a successor or representative of
the deceased. This lack of specificity rendered the suggestion ineffective in triggering the 90-day
period for substitution, as explained in 379 F.2d 94.  Furthermore, the court's discretion to
enlarge the time period for substitution, as provided by Rule 6(b), is not a blank check. Rather, it
is intended to be exercised in a judicious and reasonable manner, taking into account the particular
circumstances of each case.  In light of these principles, we conclude that the district court erred
in dismissing the action with prejudice. The case should be remanded for further proceedings,
allowing the parties to properly substitute a representative of the deceased and continue the action
in a manner consistent with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.


**Label:** 5


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-finetuned:***
  The court’s action was an error in law. In a recent case, the court held that Rule 25(a) (1) “is
not designed to require a plaintiff to take affirmative action to locate the representative of the
deceased party. Rather, it is designed to provide a mechanism for the court to manage the case in
the event the deceased party has not been substituted.” 359 F.2d 292, 294 (C.A. 4, 1966). In another
case, the court held that the Rule “does not require a plaintiff to institute machinery in order to
produce a representative of the estate ad litem, pending appointment of the representative
contemplated by law of the domicile of the deceased.” 379 F.2d 94, 96 (C.A. 7, 1967). In that case,
the court noted that the “plaintiff’s attorney did not know whether probate of the will might be
contested, or who would be appointed representative of the estate.” Id. at 96. The court held that
the suggestion of death was ineffective to trigger the 90-day period under Rule 25(a) (1) where the
suggestion did not identify a successor or representative of the deceased party. Id. at 96. See
also, 4A Wright & Miller, Federal Practice and Procedure: Civil 2d, 2451 (1969). The court’s action
was an error in law. The judgment is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion. Reversed. (Emphasis added.)


**Label:** 6, 5, 4


**citations:** ['379 F.2d 94', '359 F.2d 292']

***short_citations_0:*** 379 F.2d 94

the proper parties. * * * Unless the motion for substitution is made not later than 90 days after the death is suggested upon the record by service of a statement of the fact of the death as provided herein for the service of the motion, the action shall be dismissed as to the deceased party.” Here not only had the 90-day period not expired when the court entered summary judgment, the appellant by her motion for reconsideration had specifically invoked the discretion of the court. Rule 6(b) provides pertinently that when “by these rules * * * an act is required or allowed to be done at or within a specified time, the court for cause shown may at any time in its discretion (1) with or without motion or notice order the period enlarged if request therefor is made before the expiration of the period originally prescribed * * Originally the Rule had precluded an extension of time for taking action under Rule 25(a) (1), but by purposeful amendment, it was sought to relieve against the hardship of the Court’s holding in Anderson v. Yungkau, 329 U.S. 482, 67 S.Ct. 428, 91 L.Ed. 436 (1947). It was intended that liberal effect be given to the 1963 amendment. Graham v. Pennsylvania Railroad, 119 U.S.App.D.C. 335, 342 F.2d 914 (1964), cert. denied, 381 U.S. 904, 85 S.Ct. 1446, 14 L.Ed.2d 286 (1965). We are constrained to reverse for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. Reversed. The only “party” then

***short_citations_1:*** 359 F.2d 292

insertion of a “reasonable time” standard. In 1963, the Advisory Committee suggested the present rule and noted: “Present Rule 25(a) (1), together with present Rule 6(b), results in an inflexible requirement that an action be dismissed as to a deceased party if substitution is not carried out within a fixed period measured from the time of the death. The hardships and inequities of this unyielding requirement plainly appear from the cases. * * * The amended rulé establishes a time limit for the motion to substitute based not upon the time of the death, but rather upon the time information of the death is provided by means of a suggestion of death upon the record, i. e. service of a statement of the fact of the death.” See Notes of Advisory Committee on the Civil Rules, 28 U.S.C. Rule 25 (1964). Rule 6(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure was also amended in 1963 and the prohibition against extending the time for taking action under Rule 25 was eliminated. The Advisory Committee on the Civil Rules noted: “It is intended that the court shall have discretion to enlarge that period.” The amendments of Rules 6(b) and 25(a) (1) provided needed flexibility. It was assumed that discretionary extensions would be liberally granted. Movants under Rule 25 can ordinarily control when a death is “suggested upon the record” and appellants’ attorney was under no obligation to file his affidavit of Staggers’ death on the date he did. He could have filed

**prev_text:**
LEVENTHAL, Circuit Judge: The District Court held that Rule 25(a) (1) of the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure required dismissal of the plaintiffs’ tort action because defendant’s counsel had filed a
suggestion of death of the defendant yet plaintiff had not made any substitution of parties within
90 days. We reverse on the ground that the suggestion of death, which was neither filed by nor
identified a successor or representative of the deceased, such as an executor or administrator, was
ineffective to trigger the running of the 90-day period provided by the Rule. Mr. and Mrs. John
Rende filed an action in the District Court individually and on behalf of their infant son who had
been struck and injured by Alfred S. Kay while driving his car. On August 27, 1967, defendant Kay
died. On September 1, 1967, the defendant’s attorney, a term used here to identify the lawyer who
had been retained by deceased to defend the action, and who had duly entered an appearance as
attorney for defendant, filed a suggestion of death in the District Court, giving notice to
plaintiffs’ attorney. That same day there was filed in the Orphans Court for Montgomery County,
Maryland, residence of the deceased, his will naming his widow as executrix, but the will had not
been probated, nor any legal representative appointed for the estate at the time of the filing of
this appeal. Plaintiffs’ attorney was injured on October 14, 1967. On returning to practice early in
1968, he learned that no successor to defendant Kay had yet been appointed, and he moved to certify
the case to the ready calendar. The defendant’s attorney opposed this on grounds that discovery
procedures had not been completed. The case was delayed and placed on the ready calendar as of June
7, 1968. However, in April 1968, the defendant’s attorney moved in his own name to dismiss the
action on the ground that Rule 25(a) (1) required plaintiffs to move to substitute a proper party
for the deceased within 90 days of the suggestion of death. Plaintiffs filed an opposition and
motion for substitution of the proper party, and sought an extension of the time for substitution as
allowed by Rule 6(b). At argument, plaintiffs’ counsel asserted the “suggestion of death was
defective in that it did not list the name of the proper party; that is the legal representative of
the defendant.” The court responded: “That would not be his burden.” The court dismissed the action
with prejudice. Prior to its amendment in 1963, Rule 25(a) (1) required the court to dismiss a case
if no motion for substitution was filed within two. years after date of death, and no extensions of
this period were allowed under Rule 6(b). The rule was rigorously applied, often with harsh results,
and was called “easily the poorest rule of all the Federal Rules.” In 1955 the Advisory Committee on
Rules for Civil Procedure recommended that the two-year period be changed to a “reasonable time”
standard. In 1961 the Advisory Committee on Civil Rules again suggested the Rule be made more
flexible. In 1963 the Supreme Court made changes in Rule 25(a) (1) and in Rule 6(b) so as to provide
a 90-day time limit from the filing of a suggestion of death, and to give the court discretion to
extend that time. The Committee Notes explaining the amendments state: Present Rule 25(a) (1),
together with present Rule 6(b), results in an inflexible requirement that an action be dismissed as
to a deceased party if substitution is not carried out within a fixed period measured from the time
of death. The hardships and inequities of this unyielding requirement plainly appear from the cases.
* * * The amended rule establishes a time limit for the motion to substitute based not upon the time
of the death, but rather upon the time information of the death is provided by means of a suggestion
of death upon the record. * * * A motion to substitute may be made by any party or by the
representative of the deceased party without awaiting the suggestion of death. Indeed, the motion
will usually be so made. If a party or the representative of the deceased party desires to limit the
time within which another may make the motion, he may do so by suggesting the death upon the record.
(Emphasis added.) Under the amended Rule either a party or “the successors or representatives of the
deceased party” may avoid delay in effecting substitution for the deceased party either by filing a
motion for substitution or by suggesting death on the record and thus triggering the 90-day period
which begins with suggestion of death. The Advisory Committee, in outlining that suggestion of death
could be made by “the representative of the deceased party” plainly contemplated that the suggestion
emanating from the side of the deceased would identify a representative of the estate, such as an
executor or administrator, who could be substituted for the deceased as a party, with the action
continued in the name of the representative. The addition of “successor” in the Rule would take care
of the case of, say, the distributee of an estate that had been distributed, but would not make a
material difference in the aspect under consideration. Form 30, for suggestion of death, which was
provided in order to expedite and facilitate implementation of the amendment, provides: A.B.
[described as a party, or as executor, administrator, or other representative or successor of C.D.,
the deceased party\ suggests upon the record, pursuant to Rule 25(a) (1), the death of C.D.
[describe as party] during the pendency of this action. Added Jan. 21, 1963, eff. July 1, 1963.
[Emphasis added.] Although the attorney for the defendant was retained to “represent” the deceased
as his counsel, he is not a person who could be made a party, and is not a “representative of the
deceased party” in the sense contemplated by Rule 25(a) d). In our opinion the Rule, as amended,
cannot fairly be construed, as the de fendant’s attorney argues, to make his suggestion of death
operative to trigger the 90-day period even though he was neither a successor nor representative of
the deceased, and gave no indication of what person was available to be named in substitution as a
representative of the deceased. Counsel’s construction would open the door to a tactical maneuver to
place upon the plaintiff the burden of locating the representative of the estate within 90 days. We
can conceive of cases wherein even the lawyer retained to represent a defendant might know the
defendant had died, yet not readily know where his estate would be administered. In the present
case, plaintiff’s attorney did know the court of probate, but he did not know whether probate of the
will might be contested, or who would be appointed representative of the estate. The tactic of the
defendant’s attorney would place on plaintiff the burden, where no conventional representative was
appointed for the estate in probate court, of instituting machinery in order to produce some
representative of the estate ad litem, pending appointment of the representative contemplated by law
of the domicile of the deceased.


