**gold_text:**
The parties are hereby advised that under the provisions of Rule 3(b) of the Rules for United States
Magistrates in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts, any party who
objects to this report and these recommendations must file a written objection thereto with the
Clerk of this Court within 10 days of the party’s receipt of this Report and Recommendation. The
written objections must specifically identify the portion of the recommendations, or report to which
objection is made and the basis for such objections. The parties are further advised that the United
States Court of Appeals for this Circuit has indicated that failure to comply with this rule shall
preclude further appellate review. See Park Motor Mart, Inc. v. Ford Motor Co., 616 F.2d 603 (1
Cir., 1980); United States v. Vega, 678 F.2d 376, 378-79 (1 Cir., 1982); Scott v. Schweiker, 702
F.2d 13, 14 (1 Cir., 1983). See also, Thomas v. Arn, 474 U.S. 140, 106 S.Ct. 466, 88 L.Ed.2d 435
(1985).

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
In considering the objections to the magistrate's report, it is crucial to reference the Federal
Magistrate’s Act, 28 U.S.C. § 636(b)(1), which has been extensively interpreted in several cases. As
highlighted in 616 F.2d 603 and 678 F.2d 376, any party may serve and file written objections to the
magistrate's proposed findings and recommendations within ten days, allowing a judge to make a de
novo determination of contested portions.  In the case at hand, the magistrate directed that
objections should be filed within ten days, paralleling the procedure noted in 474 U.S. 140, where
failure to file timely objections can result in waiver of the right to appeal. Despite the potential
for review sua sponte by the district judge, as occurred in 474 U.S. 140, such a provision
underscores the importance of adhering to procedural rules.  Therefore, in alignment with judicial
precedents (616 F.2d 603, 678 F.2d 376, 474 U.S. 140), this court adopts the magistrate’s report and
recommendations. Consequently, the claims in Count I are adequately detailed under Fed.R.Civ.P.
9(b), and further discovery will entail a comprehensive review post-pretrial, ensuring due process
and judicial economy.  Report and recommendation of the magistrate is adopted.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
 <answer> I am happy to help you with your query. Based on the reference cases you provided,
specifically 616 F.2d 603, 678 F.2d 376, and 474 U.S. 140, I can assist you in analyzing the legal
issues related to the Federal Magistrates Act and Rule 9(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
In the reference case 616 F.2d 603, the court held that a party may choose not to file objections to
a magistrate's report and recommendation, but if they do file objections, the objections must be
served and filed within the specified time period. This is in line with the statutory language and
purpose of the Federal Magistrates Act.  In the reference case 678 F.2d 376, the court emphasized
the importance of specificity in pleading fraud and misrepresentation claims. The court held that
allegations based on "information and belief" do not satisfy the particularity requirement unless
the complaint sets forth the facts on which the belief is founded.  In the reference case 474 U.S.
140, the court reiterated the importance of specificity in pleading fraud and misrepresentation
claims. The court held that Rule 9(b) requires specification of time, place, and content of an
alleged false representation, and that allegations based on "information and belief" do not satisfy
the particularity requirement.  Based on these reference cases, it is clear that the Federal
Magistrates Act and Rule 9(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure require specificity and
particularity in pleading fraud and misrepresentation claims. The courts have emphasized the
importance of providing adequate notice to defendants of the alleged fraudulent conduct and the need
to specify the time, place, and content of the alleged misrepresentations.  In the context of the
instant case, it appears that the Second Amended Complaint complies with the requirements of Rule
9(b) and the Federal Magistrates Act. The complaint provides sufficient specificity and
particularity in pleading the alleged misrepresentations and provides adequate notice to the
defendants of the alleged fraudulent conduct.  In conclusion, based on the reference cases and the
analysis provided, it is clear that the Federal Magistrates Act and Rule 9(b) of the Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure require specificity and particularity in pleading fraud and misrepresentation
claims. The courts have emphasized the importance of providing adequate notice to defendants of the
alleged fraudulent conduct and the need to specify the time, place, and content of the alleged
misrepresent


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-finetuned:***
  . In United States v. Walters, 638 F.2d 947 (6th Cir., 1981), the Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit held that a party who fails to file objections to a magistrate’s report and recommendation
within the time specified in the report and recommendation waives the right to appeal the order
adopting the report and recommendation. See also, United States v. Houser, 678 F.2d 376 (6th Cir.,
1982) and Stone v. INS, 474 U.S. 140 (1985). In view of the language of the Report and
Recommendation, I RECOMMEND that the Defendant’s Motion To Dismiss The Amended Complaint (# 29) be
DENIED and that the Defendant’s request for a hearing be DENIED. In the circumstances, I do not
believe that the Defendant has waived its right to challenge the Second Amended Complaint. I
RECOMMEND that the Defendant be given an opportunity to file a new motion to dismiss the Second
Amended Complaint. See, United States v. Walters, supra. I further RECOMMEND that the Defendant be
given an opportunity to file a new motion for a hearing. See, Stone v. INS, supra. I RECOMMEND that
the parties be directed to confer and to agree upon a schedule for the filing of the new motions.
See, United States v. Houser, supra. I RECOMMEND that the parties be directed to confer and to agree
upon a schedule for the filing of the new motions. See, United States v. Houser, supra. I RECOMMEND
that the parties be directed to confer and to agree upon a schedule for the filing of the new
motions. See, United States v. Houser, supra. I RECOMMEND that the parties be directed to confer and
to agree upon a schedule for the filing of the new motions. See, United States v. Houser, supra.


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['616 F.2d 603', '678 F.2d 376', '474 U.S. 140']

***short_citations_0:*** 616 F.2d 603

for the disposition, by a judge . . .” The Act further provides, (C) [T]he magistrate shall file his proposed findings and recommendations under subparagraph (B) with the court and a copy shall forthwith be mailed to all parties. Within ten days after being served with a copy, any party may serve and file written objections to such proposed findings and recommendations as provided by rules of court. A judge of the court shall make a de novo determination of those portions of the report or specified proposed findings or recommendations to which objection is made. A judge of the court may accept, reject, or modify, in whole or in part, the findings or recommendations made by the magistrate. (Emphasis suppl.) Basically, the dispute between the parties centers upon the effect of the phrase “may serve and file written objections.” Defendants assert that a party may decide not to file, but that filing is obligatory if he is dissatisfied. Plaintiffs’ position is that the district court has a duty to review the magistrate’s recommendations in any event, and that the losing party need file objections only if he wishes a hearing. Although the court cited its Local Rule 7(c), this rule is of no assistance. Other than referring to the statute itself, it is limited to “appeal[s]” from orders under subsection (b)(1)(A). We turn, accordingly, to the statute. There are three possible areas of consideration: the statutory language, the statutory purpose, and the legislative history. First, plaintiffs point to the

***short_citations_1:*** 678 F.2d 376

the Magistrate’s Report and Recommendation dated May 14, 1981.” Appellant’s brief does not discuss at all the question of appealability; it assumes that, because the court adopted the magistrate’s report and recommendation, it can challenge the motion to suppress. This was an incorrect assumption. The Federal Magistrate’s Act, 28 U.S.C. § 631 et seq. reads in pertinent part: parties. Within ten days after being served with a copy, any party may serve and file written objections to such proposed findings and recommendations as provided by rules of court. A judge of the court shall make a de novo determination of those portions of the report or specified proposed findings or recommendations to which objection is made. A judge of the court may accept, reject, or modify, in whole or in part, the findings or recommendations made by the magistrate. The judge may also receive further evidence or recommit the matter to the magistrate with instructions. (B) a judge may also designate a magistrate to conduct hearings, including evi-dentiary hearings, and to submit to a judge of the court proposed findings of fact and recommendations for the disposition, by a judge of the court, of any motion excepted in subparagraph (A), of applications for posttrial relief made by individuals convicted of criminal offenses and of prisoner petitions challenging conditions of confinement. (C) the magistrate shall file his proposed findings and recommendations under subparagraph (B) with the court and a copy shall forthwith be mailed to all Id. § 636(b)(1)(B), (C). Park

***short_citations_2:*** 474 U.S. 140

admit the proffered testimony had not impaired the fundamental fairness of the trial, and therefore was not an adequate ground for habeas corpus relief. The last page of the Magistrate’s report contained the prominent legend: “ANY OBJECTIONS to this Report and Recommendation must be filed with the Clerk of Courts within ten (10) days of receipt of this notice. Failure to file objections within the specified time waives the right to appeal the District Court’s order. See: United States v. Walters, 638 F. 2d 947 (6th Cir. 1981).” Despite this clear notice, petitioner failed to file objections at any time. She sought and received an extension of time to file objections through June 15, 1982, on the grounds that “this case entails many substantive issues and counsel needs more time to write his brief.” However, petitioner made no further submissions on the merits to the District Court. Notwithstanding petitioner’s failure to file objections, the District Judge sua sponte “review[ed] . . . the entire record de novo,” App. 59, and dismissed the petition on the merits. Petitioner sought and was granted leave to appeal. Petitioner’s brief on appeal raised only the issue of the Battered Wife Syndrome testimony. The brief provided no explanation for petitioner’s failure to object to the Magistrate’s report. Counsel for petitioner waived oral argument, and the case was decided on the briefs. The Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit affirmed. 728 F. 2d 813 (1984). Without reaching the merits, it held that petitioner had waived

**prev_text:**
ORDER HARRINGTON, District Judge. Report and recommendation of the magistrate is adopted by this
court. REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION ON MOTION TO DISMISS THE AMENDED COMPLAINT (# 29) Feb. 27, 1989.
ROBERT B. COLLINGS, United States Magistrate. Terry Howard, Byron Roseman and Frederick Wikander are
three Massachusetts physicians who were trustees of Medical Associates, a Massachusetts business
trust. Chelmsford Medical Associates, Inc., a professional corporation, is alleged to be the
successor-in-interest of Medical Associates. The instant case arises out of agreements reached
whereby the defendant would sell and grant certain licenses respecting a computer system for use by
the business trust. The Second Amended Complaint contains claims for intentional or negligent
misrepresentation (Count I), breach of contract (Count II), breach of warranties (Count III),
negligence/computer malpractice (Count IV) and unfair or deceptive acts and practices (Count V).
Jurisdiction is based on diversity of citizenship. I RECOMMEND that all but one of the grounds
listed in the Defendant’s Motion To Dismiss The Amended Complaint (# 29) be DEFERRED for resolution
at the PreTrial Conference when discovery has been completed. See Rule 12(d), Fed.R.Civ.P. The
reason for this recommendation is that the defendant does not assert that all of the claims in the
Second Amended Complaint (as opposed to the Amended Complaint) are subject to dismissal. Specifical
ly, to the extent that Count II of the Second Amended Complaint contains a claim by plaintiffs
Howard, Roseman and Wikander for breach of contract, defendant does not contend that Count II is
subject to dismissal. Since the case will go forward on that claim regardless of whether the other
claims are dismissed and since the scope of discovery would be approximately the same regardless of
whether or not the other claims are dismissed at this time, it seems to me in the interests of
judicial economy to defer the motion to dismiss the other claims until after the issues respecting
those claims have been sharpened by the discovery process. The one exception is the claim that the
counts sounding in fraud and misrepresentation are not pleaded with the particularity required by
Rule 9(b), Fed.R.Civ.P. This type of issue should not be deferred. This is not the first time I have
reviewed plaintiffs’ pleadings to determine if the allegations of fraud have complied with Rule
9(b), Fed.R.Civ.P. On February 12, 1988,1 issued a Memorandum (# 20) indicating that although the
content of the misrepresentations was adequately pleaded, the pleadings were defective because of
the failure to state the time and place of the alleged misrepresentations. In the Amended Complaint
(# 26) and in the Second Amended Complaint (# 62), plaintiffs have sought to rectify this
deficiency. They claim they have done so; defendant disagrees. Count I of the Second Amended
Complaint alleging misrepresentation is divided into two parts. The first deals with
misrepresentations allegedly made before the parties entered into a written contract; the second
deals with misrepresentations made after the written contract was signed. Paragraph 34 concerns
misrepresentations made before the contract was signed and reads as follows: 34. To induce
Chelmsford Medical Associates to enter into the Systems Purchase Agreement, Cycare falsely
represented the features, performance and quality of the system and the nature and quality of
Cycare’s support services, and falsely represented the benefits to Chelmsford Medical Associates of
using the system. Specifically, and without limitation, Cycare made the representations as described
in paragraph 11, above. Paragraph 11 contains twelve subparts (a through 1) which list
“representations” allegedly made. After each of the subparts, a “specification” of time and place is
set forth in parentheses. The “specifications” are similar. Examples are: a. (This representation
was made during the one-site demonstration and in documentation.)” c. “... (This representation was
made in the on-site and off-site demonstrations, during the on-site visits and during telephone
discussions between the parties.)” g. “... (These representations were made during the on-site and
off-site demonstrations, during the on-site visits and in the Written Proposal and in the
documentation.)” Paragraph 8 contains dates and places of a number of these events. The on-site
demonstration occurred at the plaintiffs’ offices on May 23-24, 1985. The “Written Proposal” was
made on or about June 24, 1985. The “off-site” demonstration occurred on June 26-27, 1985 at
Memphis, Tennessee. It is further alleged that “additional on-site visits by Cycare to Chelmsford
[occurred] during the period July-September, 1985.” Lastly, it is alleged that the telephone
conversations occurred between May, 1985 and the date of the execution of the written contract,
i.e., September 30, 1985. The second group of alleged misrepresentations is alleged to have occurred
after September 30,1985. Paragraphs 35 and 36 of the Second Amended Complaint read as follows: 35.
To induce Chelmsford Medical Associates to continue to use a defective system, CyCare falsely
represented that it could and would remedy the malfunctions and problems with the computer system.
These representations were made beginning in approximately March, 1986 when the first computer run
was made on the CyCare system, and continued to be made up to and including June, 1987. These
representations were made by CyCare while present at Chelmsford Medical Associates’ site, including
but not limited to meetings in March 1986, April 1986, July 1986, October 1986 and March 1987 and in
telephone conversations throughout the period, including but not limited to the following
correspondence: a. letter dated August 6, 1986 from James R. Eley to Byron Roseman, M.D.; b. letter
dated August 21, 1986 from David Bennett to Alan Carr-Locke; c. letter dated September 24, 1986 from
David Bennett to Alan Carr-Locke; d. letter dated October 13, 1986 from James R. Eley to Byron
Roseman, M.D.; e. letter dated October 25, 1986 from Lorraine Hess to Alan Carr-Locke; f. letter
dated March 30, 1987 from Lorraine Hess to Dick Farrar; g. letter dated April 6, 1987 from Daniel A.
Wolfe to Diane Richards; h. letter dated April 22, 1987 from James R. Eley to Byron Roseman, M.D.;
i. letter dated May 22, 1987 from Daniel A. Wolfe to Byron Roseman, M.D. The resolution of whether
plaintiffs have now complied with Rule 9(b), Fed.R.Civ. P., is governed by the five most recent
First Circuit cases construing Rule 9(b), Fed.R. Civ.P., i.e. McGinty v. Beranger Volkswagen, Inc.,
633 F.2d 226, 228 (1 Cir.,1980); Wayne v. Gulf Oil Corp., 739 F.2d 11 (1 Cir.,1984); Simcox v. San
Juan Shipyard, Inc., 754 F.2d 430 (1 Cir.,1985); Hayduk v. Lanna, 775 F.2d 441 (1 Cir.,1985) and New
England Data Services, Inc. v. Becher, 829 F.2d 286 (1 Cir.,1987). In McGinty v. Beranger
Volkswagen, Inc., the Court wrote: The clear weight of authority is that Rule 9 requires
specification of time, place and content of an alleged false representation but not the
circumstances or evidence from which fraudulent intent could be inferred, [citations omitted] This
interpretation of Rule 9 comports with its language, harmonizes the rule with Rule 8, which requires
that averments in pleadings be concise and direct, and at the same time fulfills a major purpose of
Rule 9: to give adequate notice of the plaintiff’s claim of fraud or mistake, [citations omitted]
Id., 633 F.2d at 228-29. In Wayne v. Gulf Oil Corp., the Court added “... that allegations based on
‘information and belief' do not satisfy the particularity requirement unless the complaint sets
forth the facts on which the belief is founded ... and that the requirement that supporting facts be
pleaded applies even when the fraud relates to matters within the knowledge of the opposing party.”
Id., 739 F.2d at 13-14. In Simcox v. San Juan Shipyard, Inc., the Court noted that the “purpose of
the rule [9(b) ] is to protect the defendant from unfair surprise and to discourage ‘strike suits.’
” Id., 754 F.2d at 439. In addition, the Court wrote: Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 8(f) provides
that “all pleadings shall be construed so as to do substantial justice.” Considered as a whole, we
find that the facts and circumstances pleaded in the complaint were sufficient to give notice to
[the defendant] of the nature of the claims against it and find no error in the district court’s
consideration of fraud, [citation omitted] Id. at 440. In Hayduk v. Lanna, the Court wrote: One of
the main purposes of [Rule 9(b) ] is to apprise the defendant of fraudulent claims and of the acts
which form the basis of the claim, [citations omitted] In other words, ‘[i]n cases in which fraud
lies at the core of the action, the rule does not permit a complainant to file suit first, and
subsequently to search for a cause of action.’ Lopez v. Bulova Watch Co., Inc., 582 F.Supp. 755, 766
(D.R.I.1984) (citing Deyhle v. Barclay Investments, Inc., No. 82-0662, slip op. at 4 (D.R.I. Oct.
13, 1983)) (emphasis added). Id., 775 F.2d at 443. Lastly, in New England Data Services, Inc. v.
Becher, the Court considered the applicability of Rule 9(b) to predicate acts of mail and wire fraud
which were pleaded in a RICO claim. The Court held that “Rule 9(b) requires specificity in the
pleading of RICO mail and wire fraud [and] [t]his degree of specificity is no more nor less than we
have required in fraud and securities fraud cases.” Id., 829 F.2d at 290 (citations omitted). In so
holding, the Court wrote that: Generally, there are three purposes behind Rule 9(b)’s particularity
requirement: (1) to place the defendants on notice and enable them to prepare meaningful responses;
(2) to preclude the use of a groundless fraud claim as a pretext to discovering a wrong or as a
“strike suit”; and (3) to safeguard defendants from frivolous charges which might damage their
reputations, [citations omitted] Id., 829 F.2d at 289. The Court specifically noted that in
determining whether Rule 9(b) is satisfied, a Court must “keep in mind” these three major purposes
of Rule 9(b). Applying these principles to the case at bar, it becomes apparent that the Second
Amended Complaint complies with the provisions of Rule 9(b), Fed.R.Civ.P. Therefore, I RECOMMEND
that Defendant’s Motion To Dismiss The Amended Complaint (# 29) be deemed to seek dismissal of the
Second Amended Complaint and that to the extent that the motion seeks dismissal of the Second
Amended Complaint on the ground that it fails to plead fraud and misrepresentation with the
requisite degree of particularity, the motion be DENIED. First, all but two of the
misrepresentations alleged in paragraph 11 (made before the written contract was executed) are
alleged to have been made at either the “on-site demonstration” or the “off-site demonstration” or
both. The dates and places of both the “on-site demonstration” and the “off-site demonstration” are
stated with particularity in paragraph 8. The other two misrepresentations are alleged to have been
made at “on-site visits.” Since “on-site” refers to the plaintiffs’ business premises, the place of
the misrepresentations is pleaded with particularity. The time is specified in paragraph 8 as being
within the three months period from July through September, 1985. In the circumstances, I view this
as sufficient particularity. Second, each of the alleged misrepresentations made after the written
contract was signed are alleged to have been made in nine pieces of correspondence which are listed
by date, sender, and recipient in paragraph 35 of the Second Amended Complaint. This is sufficient
particularity as to time and place for the purposes of Rule 9(b), Fed.R.Civ.P. Third, I view the
allegations respecting misrepresentations made both before and after the written contract was
executed as being sufficient when considering the purposes of Rule 9(b). The allegations give
sufficient notice of the basis of the allegations of fraud to enable the defendant to prepare a
meaningful response. In view of the sufficiency of the breach of contract claim which arises out of
the same set of circumstances, it can hardly be said that the fraud claim is a pretext to
discovering a wrong or that the fraud claim is being used as a “strike suit.” Roberts v. Smith
Barney, Harris Upham Co., Inc., 653 F.Supp. 406, 415-16 (D.Mass., 1986). Lastly, the fraud claim
cannot be labelled as frivolous. Fourth, in view of what I have indicated regarding the sufficiency
as to time and place of misrepresentations made at on-site and off-site demonstrations and at on-
site visits and in correspondence, I do not find a violation of Rule 9(b) in the allegations that
the same misrepresentations were also made in unspecified telephone calls between agents of the
parties during the specified time periods. Rule 9(b), Fed.R.Civ.P., is to be harmonized with Rule
8(a)(2), Fed.R.Civ.P., which provides for a “short and plain statement of the claim.” There would be
no harmony between the two rules if a plaintiff, in order to comply with Rule 9(b), had to list
every time and place at which a specific misrepresentation was repeated. Lastly, I do not see a
violation of Rule 9(b) in the failure of the plaintiff to identify the specific agent of the
defendant who made each misrepresentation. Although other courts have construed Rule 9(b) as
requiring an identification of the maker of the misrepresentation, none of the First Circuit cases
indicate that such identification is a prerequisite to compliance with Rule 9(b); all that is
required is a specification of time, place and content. To be sure, I can envisage some
circumstances in which an identification might well be required. For example, if a complaint alleged
only a single misrepresentation by an agent of a defendant and specified the time, place and content
but not the identity of the agent, it could well be argued that the defendant-corporation would need
further specification in order to make a meaningful response to the claim. But the circumstances of
the instant case are different. There appears to have been an extended period of dealings between
the parties culminating in a written contract which both sides acknowledge as having executed. I
cannot see how a specification of the identity of the defendant’s agents who allegedly made the
misrepresentations is necessary in order for the defendant to understand the basis of the fraud
claim and to be able to respond to it.


