**gold_text:**
As to the entries made on petitioner’s books by Klapper, a staff witness who was petitioner’s
cashier at the time the entries were made, it is hard to see how they were a “statement” which the
SEC was required to divulge under the Jencks case, see NLRB v. Adhesive Products Corp., 258 F.2d 403
(2d Cir. 1958). Nor was it prejudicial error for the SEC to rule with respect to a statement of a
witness obtained during investigation that petitioner’s counsel could examine the statement only in
the presence of the hearing examiner or of a staff member and could not make copies of it, though he
could examine it at length and ask for a recess to examine it. This ruling did not unduly impair
counsel’s ability to use prior statements of witnesses for purposes of impeachment — the rationale
underlying Jencks v. United States, 353 U.S. 657, 77 S.Ct. 1007, 1 L.Ed.2d 1103 (1957).

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
Petitioner also alleges procedural unfairness due to the SEC’s refusal to produce certain documents
and statements critical for cross-examining witnesses, thereby impeding their ability to challenge
the credibility of the Commission’s evidence. As established in 258 F.2d 403, the refusal to compel
the production of a statement in the possession of a witness can significantly prejudice the
defense, particularly when it involves the credibility of a crucial witness. In the present case,
similar to the cited precedent, the SEC's withholding of these documents constituted a procedural
error impacting the fairness of the proceedings against Holman.  Moreover, referring to 353 U.S.
657, the importance of access to reports and statements for impeachment purposes during cross-
examination cannot be overstated. The ability to challenge the memory and veracity of key witnesses
is central to a fair adjudicatory process. Here, the SEC's denial undermined Holman's opportunity to
inspect potentially conflicting or inconsistent witness statements which could have bolstered the
defense's argument and strategy.  These procedural deficiencies, as objected by the petitioner,
align with recognized standards of fairness and proper examination during legal proceedings, thereby
suggesting a significant procedural lapse that may warrant reconsideration of the SEC's adjudicatory
actions against Holman.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
 The case of R. A. Holman & Co., Inc. v. SEC presents several procedural issues regarding the
revocation of the company's broker-dealer registration and membership in the National Association of
Securities Dealers, Inc. The SEC's order was based on findings that the company's officers made
false and misleading statements and willfully violated federal securities laws in connection with
the offer and sale of stock in two corporations, Precise Development Corporation and Pearson
Corporation.  The company argues that the SEC's order was invalid due to procedural irregularities,
including the participation of Commissioner Woodside in the proceedings despite his involvement in
the investigation of the company before becoming a Commissioner. However, the court distinguished
this case from Amos Treat & Co. v. SEC, 113 U.S.App.D.C. 100, 306 F.2d 260 (1962), where the
Commissioner had participated in the investigation and had acquired substantial knowledge of the
facts before becoming a Commissioner. The court held that Commissioner Woodside's participation did
not disqualify him from participating in the adjudicatory proceedings.  The company also argues that
the hearing examiner, William W. Swift, was not qualified to hear the case due to his age. However,
the court held that the company's challenge to Swift's qualifications was not timely, as required by
§ 7(a) of the Administrative Procedure Act, and that the company had failed to challenge Swift's
qualifications at an earlier stage of the proceedings.  In addition, the company argues that it was
improperly denied access to certain ex parte communications from the SEC staff to the SEC with
respect to the consolidation of the proceedings against the company and the amendment to include the
Precise stock. However, the court held that the SEC was not required to divulge the communications,
which merely concerned the nature of the proposed proceedings.  The case ultimately turned on the
sufficiency of the evidence against the company, which the SEC found had made false and misleading
statements and had willfully violated federal securities laws in connection with the offer and sale
of stock in Precise Development Corporation and Pearson Corporation. The court held that the
evidence presented by the SEC was sufficient to support the revocation of the company's broker-
dealer registration and membership in the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
References: 258 F.2d 403, 353 U.S. 657.


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['258 F.2d 403', '353 U.S. 657']

***short_citations_0:*** 258 F.2d 403

such a document could serve only to test the memory and credibility of the witness, while, in the absence of a claim of confidence or privilege, there can be no sound reason to bar such production. The request in the case at bar was not a mere fishing expedition, but rather concerned the credibility of the most important witness who testified in suport of the charges. The statement had been identified and it was, in fact, on the person of the witness himself. We are at a loss to understand; why the trial examiner did not compel its production forthwith; and his refusal to do so constituted error that could not have failed to prejudice Adhesive. As further proceedings must be had in which Doswell may be further cross-examined after Adhesive has been permitted to see the statement, it may well be that Adhesive will decide to take proper steps to request the production of the statement by Vicinanza. In the absence of some compelling reason to withhold it, and none is apparent in the record before us, there is no reason to doubt that a proper application to the Board for the production of Vicinanza’s statement will receive favorable consideration. Enforcement of that portion of the Board’s order which directed Adhesive to reimburse its employees in an amount equal to the sum which was checked off from their salaries as dues to Adco is denied because the record does not support the Board’s assertion that such action “is appropriate

***short_citations_1:*** 353 U.S. 657

The crucial nature of the testimony of Ford and Matu-sow to the Government’s case is conspicuously apparent. The impeachment of that testimony was singularly important to the petitioner. The value of the reports for impeachment purposes was highlighted by the admissions of both witnesses that they could not remember what reports were oral and what written, and by Matu-sow’s admission: “I don’t recall what I put in my reports two or three years ago, written or oral, I don’t know what they were.” Every experienced trial judge and trial lawyer knows the value for impeaching purposes of statements of the witness recording the events before time dulls treacherous memory. Flat contradiction between the witness’ testimony and the version of the events given in his reports is not the only test of inconsistency. The omission from the reports of facts related at the trial, or a contrast in emphasis upon the same facts, even a different order of treatment, are also relevant to the cross-examining process of testing the credibility of a witness’ trial testimony. Requiring the accused first to show conflict between the reports and the testimony is actually to deny the accused evidence relevant and material to his defense. The occasion for determining a conflict cannot arise until after the witness has testified, and unless he admits conflict, as in Gordon, the accused is helpless to know or discover conflict without inspecting the reports. A requirement of a showing of conflict would be clearly incompatible with our standards for

**prev_text:**
MOORE, Circuit Judge: This is a petition by R. A. Holman & Co., Inc., a New York corporation
formerly registered as a broker and a dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Section
15(b), 15 U.S.C. § 78o(b), for review of an order of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC),
revoking that registration, expelling petitioner from membership in the National Association of
Securities Dealers, Inc., and making permanent an earlier SEC order which temporarily suspended the
exemption from registration requirements of an offering of securities. Petitioner challenges the SEC
order on grounds both of insufficiency of evidence and procedural defects. A. The Sufficiency of the
Evidence. The order under review was based upon findings by the SEC that officers of the petitioner
had made or caused to be made false and misleading statements and had otherwise willfully violated
federal securities laws and regulations in connection with the offer and sale to the public of stock
in two corporations: Precise Development Corporation (Precise) and Pearson Corporation (Pearson). 1.
The Offer and Sale of Precise Stock. R. A. Holman & Co. was registered with the SEC as a broker-
dealer in September, 1958. Its first underwriting was of a Regulation A offering by Precise, a
manufacturer of electronic equipment, of 60,000 units at $5 per unit, each unit consisting of one
share of common stock and one share of preferred convertible into four shares of common. The
offering started on October 14,1958, and was reported terminated on December 31, 1958, with the sale
of 33,220 units. The evidence adduced supports the SEC’s conclusion that R. A. Holman, the president
and sole stockholder of R. A. Holman & Co., and R. A. Holman & Co. were guilty of a number of
willful violations of the Securities Act and of the Securities Exchange Act in connection with the
offer and sale of Precise stock. Rule 10b-6, 17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-6, provides that it shall
constitute a “manipulative or deceptive device or contrivance” under § 10(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. § 78j(b), for an underwriter to purchase securities while he is still
participating in their distribution. “Distribution” comprises “the entire process by which in the
course of a public offering the block of securities is dispersed and ultimately comes to rest in the
hands of the investing public.” Lewisohn Copper Corp., 38 S.E.C. 226, 234 (1958). In the course of
the Precise offering, petitioner allocated 13,000 units to the account of Ludwig J. Kabian on
December 30, 1958, on a delayed delivery basis, payment not to be made until February 3, 1959.
Kabian testified that he had been reluctant to take the units but that Holman had said he could
cancel out if he wanted to and that it was on this basis that Kabian agreed to have the sale to him
confirmed “with the right of turning them down.” Holman testified that the sale was an ordinary
“delayed delivery” sale. In January, after some investigation of the company, Kabian decided to
cancel. Petitioner took the units back, and Holman bought them for himself. In March 1959 Holman put
some 10,000 shares of Precise common into petitioner’s trading account, and the shares were sold to
the public. Upon these facts, the SEC was justified in concluding that “distribution” was still in
process until the stock originally allotted to Kabian was sold. A cancellation of a bona-fide
purchase order will not reopen a distribution, where there was no reason for the underwriter to
believe that the purchase order would be cancelled. Edgerton, Wykoff & Co., 36 S.E.C. 583, 586
(1955). Here, however, there was a real possibility at the time of purchase that Kabian would
cancel; and it naturally made the offering appear better than it actually was to report that 33,200
shares were sold by December 31, 1958, without noting the questionable firmness of Kabian’s
commitment. Rule 15c1-5, 17 C.F.R. § 240.15c 1-5, provides that the term “manipulative, deceptive,
or other fraudulent device or contrivance,” used in § 15(c) (1) of the Securities Exchange Act, 15
U.S.C. 78o(c) (1), includes any act of a broker or dealer controlling the issuer of a security
designed to effect or induce the purchase or sale of the security, unless the fact of control is
disclosed in writing before the act. The record supports the inference that Holman was “controlling”
Precise as of December 9, 1958, and it is certain that this fact was not disclosed to prospective
subscribers to the distribution. At the end of August 1958, 130,000 shares of Precise common were
outstanding: 55,000 in the name of Melville Byron, 75,000 in the names of Eugene and Albert Silber.
By December 9, 1958, no more than 15,220 shares of the new offering had been sold, so that the total
shares out were 145,220. On that day, the Silbers assigned their interest in their Precise stock to
Holman, making him majority stockholder. To be sure, this stock was to be held in escrow, with
restrictions on transferability, evidently to prevent its inclusion in the computation of the
Regulation A offering; but the Silbers agreed to give Holman irrevocable proxies covering the stock.
A Holman slate of directors was nominated, resigning only on May 30, 1959, when Holman and his
company relinquished control to Byron. Finally, Holman and two of his company’s employees, Eisenberg
and Powell, represented to customers that the stock would soon appreciate in value. There was, as
the SEC found, no basis for these representations, which were therefore misleading and
unjustifiable. See Berko v. SEC, 316 F.2d 137, 143 (2d Cir. 1963). Though the company had good
product engineering and was in a growing field (stereo equipment), its financial history had been
extremely unsatisfactory, it faced severe competition, and its difficulties had been reflected in
the sharp drop in the market after the offering was closed uncompleted. Holman was aware of the
scarcity of funds from which the company suffered — a scarcity not relieved by the unsuccessful
offering. 2. The Offer and Sale of Pearson Stock. The record also supports the SEC’s conclusions as
to the existence of willful violations by the petitioner in connection with the offer and sale of
Pearson stock. Pearson Corporation was a Rhode Island corporation which manufactured fiberglass
boats.' On March 30, 1959, it filed a notification and offering circular under Regulation A for the
purpose of obtaining an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933
with respect to a proposed public offering of 175,000 shares of common stock at $1 per share. Holman
underwrote the issue and on October 29, 1959 reported that the offering had commenced on April 24th
and was successfully completed on April 28, 1959. Between April 24th and 28th, Holman & Co. sold
15,000 shares to Holman, 4,000 shares to members of his immediate family, 12,500 shares to his close
relatives, 1,500 shares to his secretary, and 8,100 shares to Stanley D. Halperin, Holman & Co.’s
counsel, who later became Holman’s law partner. The stock rose quickly in the after-market, tripling
within a week. On April 28, 1959, Holman & Co. repurchased the shares sold to Halperin, and 4,500 of
those sold to the secretary and to one relative. Other repurchases from Holman, his family and
relatives, and the secretary amounted to about 6,500 shares in May, 13,700 shares from June' to
September, and about 6,000 shares in November and December. The SEC found these activities to be
violative of the securities laws, in that the distribution lasted until the resale to the public of
stock repurchased from Holman’s relatives and affiliates; that the plan of purchase by affiliates
and repurchase and resale by petitioner was never disclosed; that the repurchase by petitioner
violated Rule 10b-6, since the distribution was still going on; and that it was misleading to say
that the offering price to the public was to be $1 per share, since petitioner envisaged allocating
a large portion of the 175,000 shares said to be “publicly” offered to his affiliates, with a view
to repurchase and resale to the public within a short period after the offering was announced to be
closed. The record supports the conclusions of the Commission. The interval between purchase by the
affiliates and repurchase and sale to the public was so short that it seems likely that it was part
of a preconceived plan with manipulative effects: the allocation to relatives would create an
artificial scarcity of shares available to people genuinely interested in investment, which in turn
would make for an artificially, stimulated (“hot”) after-market, in which the affiliates could
unload their shares. Petitioner argues that he was unfairly surprised, since the SEC had not
previously forbidden participation by affiliates of the underwriter in a new issue, and indeed had
not permitted disclosure of the fact that officers and affiliates of the underwriter intended to
invest in the offering. However, the SEC decision with respect to the Pearson offering does not rest
upen a prohibition of underwriter investment in the offering underwritten, but rather upon a
disapproval of purchases by affiliates of the underwriter in order to create an illusion of scarcity
and with a view to quick resale at “hot” prices in the after-market. Such disapproval had previously
been made explicit in Lewisohn Copper Corp., 38 S.E.C. 226, which was promulgated on March 18, 1958
— a number of months before the commencement of the offering in Pearson. In addition, the record
indicates that between August 1959 and March 1960 Holman & Co. in several instances sent
confirmations of sales of Pearson stock to customers who had not in fact agreed to purchase such
securities. Although the transactions appear to have involved fairly minor amounts, such
confirmations of unauthorized transactions are violative of the anti-fraud provisions of the
securities acts. Shelley, Roberts & Co., 38 S.E.C. 744, 751 (1958). B. The Fairness of the
Proceedings. Petitioner contends that even if the evidence against it was substantial enough to
support the revocation of its registration and the rest of the SEC order, the proceedings before the
SEC were invalid for failure to comply with standards of procedural fairness set forth in the
Administrative Procedure Act and inherent in the due process clause of the Constitution. 1.
Separation of Prosecutorial and Adjudicatory Functions. Byron D. Woodside was Director of the
Division of Corporation Finance in the SEC from prior to March 30, 1960, until July 15, 1960, on
which latter date he was appointed a member of the Commission itself. The proceedings leading up to
the order under review started on September 16, 1960, when the SEC temporarily suspended the
Regulation A exemption from registration of the Pearson offering discussed above. Commissioner
Woodside was one of the three Commissioners who voted to issue this order. On September 26, 1960,
the SEC ordered public proceedings to be held to determine whether or not to revoke petitioner’s
broker-dealer registration or to suspend or expel it from membership in the National Association of
Security Dealers, Inc., because of petitioner’s conduct in the Pearson offering. In October 1960,
the SEC consolidated the proceedings concerning the suspension of exemption of the Pearson offering
and the proceedings concerning petitioner’s broker-dealer registration, and designated William W.
Swift as the hearing officer in the consolidated proceedings. In November 1960, charges concerning
the offering of Precise stock were added to those concerning the Pearson offering in the
registration revocation proceedings. On May 11, 1962, the Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia handed down the decision in Amos Treat & Co. v. SEC, 113 U.S.App.D.C. 100, 306 F.2d 260. In
that case, the SEC had started a public hearing to determine whether or not Amos Treat & Co.’s
broker-dealer registration should be revoked and whether or not it should be expelled from NASD. The
firm sought an injunction against further prosecution of the proceedings, contending that the
proceedings were contrary to due process in that Commissioner Manuel F. Cohen was participating in
the revocation proceedings, although he had been Director of the Division of Corporation Finance at
the time it had begun formal investigation of the registration out of which the revocation
proceedings arose. The District of Columbia Circuit held that the proceedings should be enjoined on
the ground that Commissioner Cohen was disqualified and indicated that new revocation proceedings
could be commenced in which he would not participate. The Court stated: “We are unable to accept the
view that a member of an investigative or prosecuting staff may initiate an investigation, weigh its
results, perhaps then recommend the filing of charges, and thereafter become a member of that
commission or agency, participate in adjudicatory proceedings, join in commission or agency rulings
and ultimately pass upon the possible amenability of the respondents to the administrative orders of
the commission or agency. So to hold, in our view, would be tantamount to that denial of
administrative due process against which both the Congress and the courts have inveighed.” 306 F.2d
260, 266-267. On May 28, 1962, the SEC in the case at bar handed down an order denying petitioner’s
motion for the disqualification of the hearing officer. The SEC opinion indicated that Commissioner
Woodside had participated in the denial of the motion. This was the first time his participation had
been disclosed. On June 1, 1962, petitioner moved — as it had done before — that the Commission
furnish the names of the Commissioners who had participated in the SEC’s orders and rulings in the
consolidated proceedings. The SEC declined to furnish this information. Petitioner then sought an
injunction against further proceedings, on the basis of the decision in Amos Treat & Co. The
District Court for the District of Columbia granted the injunction requested; the Court of Appeals
reversed, distinguishing Treat on the grounds that in that case the Commission did not deny that
Commissioner Cohen had to some extent participated in the investigation of the registration before
he became Commissioner, whereas in this case the SEC affidavits asserted that there was no
participation by Commissioner Woodside before his appointment to the Commission, either in
processing Holman’s applications or in the recommendations by the staff that a public hearing be
held. The Court went on to say that the claims of Holman & Co. should be heard in the first instance
at the administrative level, subject to judicial review when the proceeding is finally resolved.
“The party asserting disqualification must make his record in the administrative hearing. While the
scope and nature of that inquiry has never been fully delineated, it must be sufficient to allow the
challenging party to introduce whatever relevant evidence he possesses bearing on disqualification
since he, of course, has the burden of proof.” SEC v. R. A. Holman & Co., 116 U.S. App.D.C. 279, 323
F.2d 284, 287, cert. denied, 375 U.S. 943, 84 S.Ct. 350, 11 L.Ed.2d 274 (1963). In November 1963
petitioner requested the issuance of subpoenas ad testificandum upon Commissioner Woodside, several
SEC staff members, and a former Commissioner, evidently with a view to procuring their testimony as
to the participation of Commissioner Woodside in the investigation of petitioner before he became a
Commissioner. The hearing examiner denied the request and the Commission affirmed the denial,
stating that in light of the formal sworn denials by SEC officials that Commissioner Woodside did
not participate while director in the investigation of petitioner, petitioner had not made an
adequate showing to warrant the issuance of the subpoenas. Commissioner Woodside participated in
this ruling of the Commission. The hearings concluded on January 16, 1964. The hearing examiner
handed down his recommended decision on November 4, 1964. Oral argument on review before the
Commission was held on March 4, 1965. At that time Commissioner Woodside announced his decision not
to be present during oral argument and not to participate in the consideration or decision of the
review. The Commission published its findings and opinion on December 15, 1965, Chairman Cohen and
Commissioner Woodside not participating. Petitioner now contends that the entire proceedings were
invalid because of the participation of Commissioner Woodside, or, in the alternative, because the
SEC refused to permit the petitioner to make inquiry into the possible disqualification of
Commissioner Woodside. As to the first point, we do not think the record before us establishes that
Commissioner Woodside was disqualified within the meaning of the Treat case. The District of
Columbia Circuit itself distinguished Treat from this case, on the grounds that here there was no
evidence that the Commissioner sought to be disqualified had participated in an investigation of
petitioner before becoming a Commissioner. In Treat, Commis sioner Cohen had been head of the
Division of Corporation Finance when that division conducted an informal investigation and began a
formal investigation of the Treat firm. He had been told the results of the investigation by his
staff and had appeared on behalf of his division before the Commission in connection with other
registrations in which the Treat firm was named as underwriter, in order to discuss the general
policy to be followed with respect to the firm. In this case, there is no indication that
Commissioner Woodside, before his appointment to the Commission, participated in any investigation
of petitioner’s activities, and public proceedings to investigate petitioner’s activities were not
started until September 16, 1960 — two months after Woodside’s appointment to the Commission. To
disqualify Commissioner Woodside on the record before us would be tantamount to disqualifying from
participation in an SEC adjudicatory proceeding all personnel from the Divisions of Corporation
Finance and Trading and Exchanges without regard to the extent of their connection with the
proceeding in its investigatory stages, and would tend to prevent the appointment to the Commission
of persons who have had previous experience with its work. See 3 Loss, Securities Regulation 1877-89
(2d ed. 1961) (outlining the membership of the Commission and its staff, and pointing out that as of
1961, 14 of the 38 Commissioners had seen earlier service on the staff before their appointment to
the Commission). The record here does not show that Woodside was “engaged in the performance of
investigative or prosecuting functions” in any proceedings related to the present case, so as to be
barred by Section 5(c) of the Administrative Procedure Act from participation in adjudicatory
proceedings against the petitioner. Contrast also American Cyanamid Co. v. FTC, 363 F.2d 757 (6th
Cir. 1966). Nor did the SEC unduly restrict petitioner’s inquiry into the possible disqualification
of Commissioner Woodside. If the Commission had refused to divulge anything at all about the nature
of the preliminary investigation into petitioner’s activities, and Woodside’s role in that
investigation, this would be an unfair restriction of an inquiry into possible disqualification and,
if permitted, would render the Treat decision a meaningless admonition, easily circumvented.
However, in this case the SEC has made extensive disclosures, upon sworn statements, as to the
nature of the investigation and as to Woodside’s role in it. The answer of the SEC in the action by
petitioner for an injunction brought in the District of Columbia denied that Commissioner Woodside
had participated in any informal investigation of petitioner’s activities in connection with
Pearson’s registration statement; denied that Woodside had acquired substantial knowledge of the
facts in issue; admitted that Commissioner Cohen, who succeeded Woodside first as Acting Director
and then as Director of the Division of Corporation Finance, acquired some knowledge of the facts
about petitioner’s activities; pointed out that because of the large number of registrations each
year, the Director of the Division of Corporation Finance is not acquainted with most of the
registration statements; stated that the proceedings against petitioner stemmed from an
investigation of a registration statement filed by Pearson Corporation on March SO, 1960, and that
this investigation and the subsequent informal investigation of the earlier Regulation A offering
and the trading in Pearson stock were under the supervision of Charles H. Eisenhart, then Assistant
Director of the Division of Corporation Finance; that investigation of trading activity began in
July 1960; and also stated that a formal investigation of petitioner’s trading practices started on
August 4, 1960. An affidavit by Charles H. Eisenhart corroborated many of these statements. In his
affidavit, Eisenhart stated that he did not discuss the Pearson registration statement with the
Director of the Division of Corporation Finance until after July 15th, when Woodside was no longer
director. These sworn statements on their face adequately disclosed the nature of the preliminary
investigation and of Woodside’s role. In light of these statements, petitioner, who had the burden
of proof on the disqualification issue, as the District of Columbia Circuit recognized, 323 F.2d at
287, was obliged either to offer evidence contradicting the sworn statements of the Commission, or
to point out the inadequacy and inconsistency, if any, in the sworn statements, before he was
entitled to subpoena the Commission members and staff. 2. The Qualifications of the Hearing
Examiner. William W. Swift was designated as the hearing examiner in the proceedings against the
petitioner in October 1960. On May 15,1962, petitioner moved to disqualify Swift, on the grounds
that he had passed the mandatory retirement age and was serving at the will of the Commission.
Petitioner relied in large part upon Section 11 of the Administrative Procedure Act, which provides
that examiners “shall be removable by the agency in which they are employed only for good cause
established and determined by the Civil Service Commission * * after opportunity for hearing and
upon the record thereof,” and that examiners “shall receive compensation prescribed by the [Civil
Service] Commission independently of agency recommendations or ratings.” The hearing examiner and
the SEC denied motion for disqualification, both on the merits and on the grounds that the motion
was not timely. Swift was first employed by the SEC as a hearing examiner in 1936. He reached the
mandatory retirement age of 70 on October 31, 1957. On November 1, 1957, he received a temporary
appointment for a period up to one year under the Civil Service Retirement Act, 5 U.S.C. § 2263(a),
which provides: “Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an annuitant heretofore or hereafter
retired under this chapter shall not, by reason of his retired status, be barred from employment in
any appointive position for which he is qualified. An annuitant so reemployed shall serve at the
will of the appointing officer.” He was informed at the time he received notice of his temporary
reappointment that “in accordance with Section 13(a) of the Civil Service Retirement Act, you may be
separated at the will of the appointing officer." He has since been reappointed each year, at each
time being informed that he was subject to separation at the will of the appointing officer. We do
not find it necessary to consider the merits of petitioner’s motion for disqualification, since we
conclude that petitioner’s challenge to the qualifications of the hearing examiner was not timely,
as required by § 7(a) of the Administrative Procedure Act. Petitioner did not move to disqualify
Swift until hearings had gone on for one and a half years and 8,000 pages of testimony had been
recorded. We cannot accept the petitioner’s contention that it was not aware until April 1962 that
Swift was over the mandatory retirement age of 70. The hearing examiner’s age must have been obvious
at the beginning of the hearings in December 1960, at which time Swift was over 73. The failure to
challenge Swift’s qualifications on the grounds of his temporary reappointment over the retirement
age at some early stage of the proceedings precludes the raising of a similar objection at this
point. Petitioner contends that the one-sentence (“The judgment is reversed”) per curiam decision in
Riss & Co. v. United States, 341 U.S. 907, 71 S.Ct. 620, 95 L.Ed. 1345 (1951), stands for the
proposition that any challenge to the qualifications of the hearing examiner is timely so long as it
is made while the hearings are still going on. We do not find the Riss case, which is readily
distinguishable from the case at bar, authority for any proposition as broad. In Riss, the hearings
lasted only seven days, and the common carrier did not learn until the last day of the hearings that
the examiner was not an examiner appointed under § 11 of the A.P.A. 96 F.Supp. 452, 453
(W.D.Mo.1950). Moreover, Riss has been qualified by the subsequent decision in United States v. L.
A. Tucker Truck Lines, Inc., 344 U.S. 33, 73 S.Ct. 67, 97 L.Ed. 54 (1952), which held that an
objection to the qualifications of the examiner would not be heard unless an “appropriate objection”
to his qualifications was made and overruled during the hearings. Cf. also Long Beach Fed. Sav. &
Loan Ass’n v. Federal Home Loan Bank Bd., 189 F.Supp. 589, 612 (S.D. Cal.1960), rev’d on other
grounds, 295 F.2d 403 (9th Cir. 1961). 3. Other Alleged Procedural Irregularities. Petitioner
asserts that other procedural irregularities vitiated and invalidated the proceedings against it. It
first contends that it was improperly denied access to certain ex parte communications from the SEC
staff to the SEC with respect to the consolidation of the proceedings against petitioner and the
amendment to include the Precise stock as well as the Pearson stock. However, we agree with the
Commission that it was not required to divulge the communications in question which merely concerned
the nature of the proposed proceedings. Lack of access to the communications in no way affected
petitioner’s ability to defend himself. Nor were the communications the ex parte communications
forbidden by § 5(c) of the Administrative Procedure Act, since no “adjudication” was yet under way,
see § 2(d) of the act, and since § 5(c) does not apply “to the agency or any member or members of
the body comprising the agency.” See Amos Treat & Co. v. SEC, 113 U.S.App.D.C. 100, 306 F.2d 260,
266 (1962) (the exclusionary phrase just quoted permits “a Commissioner to participate in a decision
of the Commission that an investigation go forward and even that charges be filed to the end that an
adjudicatory proceeding might be initiated”). See also H.R.Rep.No.1980, 79th Cong., 2d Sess. 31
(1946); U.S. Code Congressional Service 1946, p. 1195; S.Rep.No.752, 79th Cong., 1st Sess. 18
(1945). Nor was it error for the hearing examiner to prevent petitioner from establishing that other
broker-dealers were engaged in transactions in Pearson and Precise stock during the periods in
question on certain days. The SEC conceded that such trading went on. It is hard to see how such
testimony would be other than cumulative, if not irrelevant, since proof of such trading did not
tend to refute the charges against petitioner.


