**gold_text:**
With certain exceptions, 11 U.S.C.A. § 362 (West 1993) automatically stays “commencement or
continuation” of any judicial proceeding against a debtor that was or could have been brought before
the commencement of the debtor’s bankruptcy case. The automatic stay of the bankruptcy court,
however, does not divest the court of “jurisdiction to hear every claim that is in any way related
to the bankruptcy proceeding.” In re San Juan Dupont Plaza Hotel Fire Litig., 994 F.2d 956, 969 (1st
Cir.1993) (quoting Picco v. Global Marine Drilling Co., 900 F.2d 846, 850 (5th Cir.1990)). Metrome-
dia’s action for trademark infringement, unfair competition, breach of contract and breach of
promissory note against Resco is a “proceeding against the debtor” and subject to the automatic
stay. See 11 U.S.C.A. § 362(a). Mather, however, is not affected by the automatic stay because he is
not a debtor in bankruptcy. See In re San Juan Dupont Plaza Hotel Fire Litig., 994 F.2d at 969
(citing Austin v. Unarco Indus., Inc., 705 F.2d 1, 4 (1st Cir.1983)); In re Supermercado Gamboa,
Inc., 68 B.R. 230, 231 (Bankr.D.P.R.1986) (section 362 ordinarily does not stay an action against
the officers or shareholders of a debtor-corporation).

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
The contention that Resco’s bankruptcy filing automatically stays the action against Mather is
unpersuasive. The automatic stay provision under 11 U.S.C. § 362(a) generally applies exclusively to
the debtor in bankruptcy and not to solvent co-defendants or associated entities. As established in
case law, such as *Austin v. Unarco Indus., Inc.*, 705 F.2d 1, 4 (1st Cir.) and cert. dismissed, 463
U.S. 1247, it is clear that section 362(a)'s provisions do not extend to co-defendants of the
debtor. Similarly, the court in *In re Western Real Estate Fund, Inc.*, 922 F.2d 592, clarified that
the stay applies strictly to actions against the debtor itself.  Additionally, courts have
consistently held that the protections of § 362 do not extend to non-debtor parties. For instance,
in *Parkview-Gem, Inc. v. Stein*, it was concluded that legally distinct entities from the debtor
are not covered by the automatic stay. As emphasized in *In re Aboussie Bros. Construction Co.*, 705
F.2d 1, solvent co-defendants are not protected by the automatic stay unless Congress explicitly
states otherwise.  Conclusion: Mather's motion to dismiss based on Resco's bankruptcy stay is
without merit. The action against him is not stayed by 11 U.S.C. § 362(a), as he is not the debtor
in this case. Therefore, the proceedings will continue against Mather independently of Resco’s
bankruptcy status.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
  The automatic stay provision in 11 U.S.C. § 362(a) only applies to the bankrupt debtor, not its
solvent co-defendants. As stated in Royal Truck and Trailer, Inc. v. Armadora Maritima Salvadorena,
S.A. de C.V., 10 B.R. 488 (N.D.Ill.1981), and In re Carib-Inn of San Juan, Corp., Case No.
B-81-00273(B) (Order filed April 12, 1982), the automatic stay does not protect nondebtor parties.
Therefore, the action against Mather cannot be dismissed based on the automatic stay.  The court
also finds that Mather is personally liable for the torts he committed, regardless of his status as
an agent of Resco. As stated in Al-Khazraji v. St. Francis College, 784 F.2d 505, 518 (3d Cir.1986),
an individual, including a director, officer, or agent of a corporation, may be liable for injuries
suffered by third parties because of his torts, regardless of whether he acted on his own account or
on behalf of the corporation.  Furthermore, Mather's claim that he is not liable for matters related
to the contracts between Metromedia and Resco and Ernst is without merit. As stated in 15 U.S.C.A.
§§ 1114, 1125(a) (West 1963 & Supp.1994), any individual may be liable for trademark infringement or
unfair competition under the Lanham Act, regardless of any contractual relationship.  In conclusion,
the court finds that Mather is personally liable for the torts he committed and that the action
against him cannot be dismissed based on the automatic stay or the lack of a contractual
relationship. The court will deny Mather's motion to dismiss.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-finetuned:***
  Mather fails to provide any authority for his assertion that the automatic stay “precludes entry
of judgment for the underlying corporate obligations that form the basis of the cause of action.”
Id. The automatic stay provided by 11 U.S.C.A. § 362(a) (West 1993) does not stay proceedings
against nondebtor parties. See In re Associated Builders, Inc., 994 F.2d 956, 962 (5th Cir.1993); In
re Associated Builders, Inc., 994 F.2d 956, 962 (5th Cir.1993); In re Associates, 900 F.2d 846, 849
(5th Cir.1990); In re Unarco Indus., Inc., 705 F.2d 1, 5 (1st Cir.1983); In re Carib-Inn of San
Juan, Corp., 68 B.R. 230, 233 (D.P.R.1986). “The automatic stay does not apply to nondebtor
parties.” In re Associated Builders, 994 F.2d at 962. Mather remains hable for his own torts
regardless of Resco’s bankruptcy. See In re Associated Builders, 994 F.2d at 962; In re Associates,
900 F.2d at 849; In re Unarco Indus., 705 F.2d at 5; In re Carib-Inn of San Juan, 68 B.R. at 233.
Therefore, the action against Mather cannot be dismissed or stayed based on Resco’s bankruptcy
petition. See In re Associated Builders, 994 F.2d at 962; In re Associates, 900 F.2d at 849; In re
Unarco Indus., 705 F.2d at 5; In re Carib-Inn of San Juan, 68 B.R. at 233. The court may not enter
judgment on the pleadings solely because of the automatic stay. See In re Associated Builders, 994
F.2d at 962; In re Associates, 900 F.2d at 849; In re Unarco Indus., 705 F.2d at 5; In re Carib-Inn
of San Juan, 68 B.R. at 233. The court may not dismiss the action against Mather solely because of
the automatic stay. See In re Associated Builders,


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['994 F.2d 956', '994 F.2d 956', '900 F.2d 846', '900 F.2d 846', '705 F.2d 1', '705 F.2d 1', '68
B.R. 230']

***short_citations_0:*** 994 F.2d 956

on which the trial judge’s viewpoint is especially important. We conclude, therefore, that the ease must be returned to the district court for further proceedings before Judge Acosta. We intimate no opinion as to the appropriate outcome of those proceedings. V. BANKRUPTCY OF AN AFFILIATED ENTITY We are not yet at journey’s end. Two appellees, Associates and HSI, invoke the so-called automatic stay provision, 11 U.S.C. § 362 (1988), in an endeavor to persuade us that an affiliated firm’s bankruptcy should have resulted in a stay of proceedings on appeal. We are not convinced. The essential facts are as follows. On August 6, 1991, Holders Capital Corporation (HoCap) filed for bankruptcy. Because HSI is a wholly owned subsidiary of HoCap and Associates is a limited partnership whose general partner is also a wholly owned subsidiary of HoCap, both appellees assert that continued prosecution of the pre-fire insurers’ appeals, as against them, constitutes an impermissible attempt to obtain possession of the debtor’s property in violation of 11 U.S.C. § 362(a)(3). This assertion need not detain us. As a general rule, section 362(a)’s automatic stay provisions apply only to the debtor in bankruptcy. See Austin v. Unarco Indus., Inc., 706 F.2d 1, 4 (1st Cir.), cert. dismissed, 463 U.S. 1247, 104 S.Ct. 34, 77 L.Ed.2d 1454 (1983); see generally In re Western Real Estate Fund Inc., 922 F.2d 592, 600 (10th Cir.1990), modified on other grounds, 932 F.2d 898 (10th Cir.1991). As entities legally distinct from HoCap, see Parkview-Gem, Inc. v. Stein,

***short_citations_1:*** 994 F.2d 956

on which the trial judge’s viewpoint is especially important. We conclude, therefore, that the case must be returned to the district court for further proceedings before Judge Acosta. We intimate no opinion as to the appropriate outcome of those proceedings. V. BANKRUPTCY OF AN AFFILIATED ENTITY We are not yet at journey’s end. Two appellees, Associates and HSI, invoke the so-called automatic stay provision, 11 U.S.C. § 362 (1988), in an endeavor to persuade us that an affiliated firm’s bankruptcy should have resulted in a stay of proceedings on appeal. We are not convinced. The essential facts are as follows. On August 5, 1991, Holders Capital Corporation (HoCap) filed for bankruptcy. Because HSI is a wholly owned subsidiary of HoCap and Associates is a limited partnership whose general partner is also a wholly owned subsidiary of HoCap, both appellees assert that continued prosecution of the pre-fire insurers’ appeals, as against them, constitutes an impermissible attempt to obtain possession of the debtor’s property in violation of 11 U.S.C. § 362(a)(3). This assertion need not detain us. As a general rule, section 362(a)’s automatic stay provisions apply only to the debtor in bankruptcy. See Austin v. Unarco Indus., Inc., 705 F.2d 1, 4 (1st Cir.), cert. dismissed, 463 U.S. 1247, 104 S.Ct. 34, 77 L.Ed.2d 1454 (1983); see generally In re Western Real Estate Fund, Inc., 922 F.2d 592, 600 (10th Cir.1990), modified on other grounds, 932 F.2d 898 (10th Cir.1991). As entities legally distinct from HoCap, see Parkview-Gem, Inc. v. Stein,

***short_citations_2:*** 900 F.2d 846

the bankruptcy court had lifted the stay to allow the filing of suits more than three months before we decided Chick Kam Choo. Thus, it was an abuse of discretion to grant relief under Rule 60(b)(6). Conclusion For the foregoing reasons, we vacate the orders entered by the district court on Oc tober 6 and November 14, 1988, and reinstate the original dismissal entered on September 4, 1986. REVERSED. . Section 362(a), 11 U.S.C., provides in part: "[A] petition filed under section 301, 302, or 303 of this title operates as a stay, applicable to all entities, of— (1) the commencement or continuation ... of a judicial ... proceeding against the debtor that was or could have been commenced before the commencement of the case under this title, or to recover a claim against the debtor that arose before the commencement of the case under this title_” . The Anti-Injunction Act provides: "A court of the United States may not grant an injunction to stay proceedings in a State Court except as expressly authorized by Act of Congress, or where necessary in aid of its jurisdiction, or to protect or effectuate its judgments.” 28 U.S.C. § 2283. . In pertinent part, Fed.R.Civ.P. 60(b) provides: "On motion and upon such terms as are just, the court may relieve a party ... from a final judgment, order, or proceeding for the following reasons: (1) mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect; (2) newly discovered evidence which by due diligence could not have been

***short_citations_3:*** 900 F.2d 846

and the bankruptcy court had lifted the stay to allow the filing of suits more than three months before we decided Chick Kam Choo. Thus, it was an abuse of discretion to grant relief under Rule 60(b)(6). Conclusion For the foregoing reasons, we vacate the orders entered by the district court on Oc tober 6 and November 14, 1988, and reinstate the original dismissal entered on September 4, 1986. REVERSED. . Section 362(a), 11 U.S.C., provides in part: "[A] petition filed under section 301, 302, or 303 of this title operates as a stay, applicable to all entities, of— (1) the commencement or continuation ... of a judicial ... proceeding against the debtor that was or could have been commenced before the commencement of the case under this title, or to recover a claim against the debtor that arose before the commencement of the case under this title....” . The Anti-Injunction Act provides: “A court of the United States may not grant an injunction to stay proceedings in a State Court except as expressly authorized by Act of Congress, or where necessary in aid of its jurisdiction, or to protect or effectuate its judgments." 28 U.S.C. § 2283. . In pertinent part, Fed.R.Civ.P. 60(b) provides: “On motion and upon such terms as are just, the court may relieve a party ... from a final judgment, order, or proceeding for the following reasons: (1) mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect; (2) newly discovered evidence which by due diligence could not have

***short_citations_4:*** 705 F.2d 1

the Bankruptcy Court was wrong in deciding that the automatic stay provisions of 11 U.S.C. § 362(a) apply only to the bankrupt debtor and not its solvent co-defendants. It argues, instead, that Unarco is a necessary party and that particularly because plaintiff made no effort to have the stay of proceedings against Unarco lifted, she should not be allowed to proceed against Raybestos alone. As an initial matter and because we expect that the issue will arise again in this circuit, we express our judgment that the Bankruptcy Court was correct in deciding that the automatic stay provisions of 11 U.S.C. § 362(a) apply only to the bankrupt debtor. We are persuaded by the reasoning of the Illinois Bankruptcy Court in Royal Truck and Trailer, Inc. v. Armadora Maritima Salvadorena, S.A. de C.V., 10 B.R. 488 (N.D.Ill.1981), and by a comparison of the stay provisions provided by Congress for a chapter 13 bankruptcy proceeding, which expressly include co-defendant debtors, with those provided for a chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding, which make no mention of co-defendant debtors, that had Congress intended § 362(a) to apply to solvent co-defendants, it would have said so. See also In re: Related Asbestos Cases, 23 B.R. 523 (N.D.Cal.1982); Aboussie Bros. Construc tion Co. v. United Missouri Bank of Kirkwood (In re Aboussie Bros. Construction Co.), 8 B.R. 302 (E.D.Mo.1981). Courts that have come to a different conclusion do not appear to have done so on the basis that § 362 requires such a result, but rather

***short_citations_5:*** 705 F.2d 1

proceeding voluntarily initiated by Unarco, one of the original co-defendants in this case. Since that time, the Bankruptcy Court has made clear its position that the automatic stay of all proceedings against bankrupt debtors provided by § 362(a) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. § 362(a), applies only to the debt- or and not to the debtor’s solvent co-defendants. On the basis of that ruling, the plaintiff requested and received from the Bankruptcy Court on October 1, 1982, an order authorizing her to pursue her appeal in this court as to parties other than Unarco. On October 20, 1982, plaintiff requested this court to lift its stay of August 5, 1982 and to allow the appeal to proceed against Raybestos alone. Raybestos does not urge that the Bankruptcy Court was wrong in deciding that the automatic stay provisions of 11 U.S.C. § 362(a) apply only to the bankrupt debtor and not its solvent co-defendants. It argues, instead, that Unarco is a necessary party and that particularly because plaintiff made no effort to have the stay of proceedings against Unarco lifted, she should not be allowed to proceed against Raybestos alone. As an initial matter and because we expect that the issue will arise again in this circuit, we express our judgment that the Bankruptcy Court was correct in deciding that the automatic stay provisions of 11 U.S.C. § 362(a) apply only to the bankrupt debtor. We are persuaded by the reasoning of the Illinois Bankruptcy Court in Royal Truck and

***short_citations_6:*** 68 B.R. 230

The contention that the automatic stay provided by § 362 of the Code protects these nondebtor parties is not tenable. The statute in question provides in pertinent part as follows: (a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, a petition filed under.... this title_operates as a stay, applicable to all entities of — (1) the commencement or continuation, including the issuance or employment of process, of a judicial, administrative, or other action or proceeding against the debtor that was or could have been commenced before the commencement of the case under this title, or to recover a claim against the debtor that arose before the commencement of the case under this title.... (3) any act to obtain possession of property of the estate or of property from the estate or to exercise control over property of the estate.... It is obvious that the statutory language imposes this extraordinary ex parte injunction only upon actions directed “against the debtor”. As stated by Judge Beckerleg in In re Carib-Inn of San Juan, Corp., Case No. B-81-00273(B) (Order filed April 12, 1982), it is settled law in this district that § 362 by itself does not protect nondebtor parties: “We have uniformly held in the past, and see no reason to change, that § 362 does not protect officers of a debtor corporation. If that seems unfair, or unjust, (and at times such as in the present case, it does), the answer is that the statute simply does not support the

**prev_text:**
ORDER DiCLERICO, Chief Judge. The plaintiff, Metromedia Steakhouses Company, L.P. (“Metromedia”),
brought a multiple count action against defendants Res-eo Management, Inc. (“Resco”), Frank Ernst
and David Mather. Pursuant to Fed. R.Civ.P. 12(b)(6), Mather brings this motion to dismiss for
failure to state a claim upon which relief can be granted as to all counts against him (document no.
18). Jurisdiction is based on 28 U.S.C.A. § 1332 (West 1993). Background In March 1982 Metromedia,
the owner of certain Bonanza trade names and service marks, entered into a license agreement with
Resco. Pursuant to the agreement Resco was licensed to use the Bonanza trade names and service marks
and to operate a Bonanza restaurant at 291 North Main Street, Rochester, New Hampshire. Verified
Complaint, ¶ 13. Ernst, president of Resco, “personally guaranteed the performance of each covenant,
payment, agreement and undertaking of Reseo set forth in the License Agreement.” Id. at ¶ 14.
Sometime later Reseo and Ernst defaulted on the terms of the license agreement and the guarantee.
See id. at ¶23. On April 8, 1993, Metromedia terminated Resco’s rights under the license agreement.
Id. at ¶25. On July 28, 1993, Metromedia brought an action against Resco and Ernst alleging
trademark and service mark infringement, unfair competition, breach of contract and breach of
promissory note. Me-tromedia named Mather, manager of the Rochester restaurant, in the trademark
infringement and unfair competition counts. Id. at Counts I, II, III and VI. On August 16, 1993,
Resco filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 7 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C.A. § 101 et seq.
Discussion Mather moves to dismiss the action against him on the grounds that (1) he was merely an
agent and/or employee of Resco and therefore he is not liable for tortious conduct occurring within
the scope of employment; (2) the causes of action are based on contractual relationships and he was
never a party to any contracts between Me-tromedia and Resco; (3) Resco’s bankruptcy precludes entry
of judgment because the underlying corporate obligations form the basis of the causes of action; and
(4) the closing of the Rochester restaurant renders Metrome-dia’s claim for permanent injunctive
relief moot. Mather makes his motion pursuant to Fed.R.Civ.P. 12(b)(6). Because Mather has already
filed an answer to the Metromedia’s complaint (document 13), the pleadings have closed under
Fed.R.Civ.P. 7(a) and the court will treat Mather’s motion to dismiss Counts I, II, III and VI as a
motion for judgment on the pleadings. See Fed.R.Civ.P. 12(c). The standard for evaluating a Rule
12(e) motion for judgment on the pleadings is essentially the same as the standard for evaluating a
Rule 12(b)(6) motion. Republic Steel Corp. v. Pennsylvania Eng’g Corp., 785 F.2d 174, 182 (7th
Cir.1986). In both cases, the court’s inquiry is a limited one, focusing not on “whether a plaintiff
will ultimately prevail but whether [he or she] is entitled to offer evidence to support the claim.”
Scheuer v. Rhodes, 416 U.S. 232, 236, 94 S.Ct. 1683, 1686, 40 L.Ed.2d 90 (1974) (motion to dismiss
under Fed.R.Civ.P. 12(b)(6)). In making its inquiry, the court must accept all of the factual
averments contained in the complaint as true and draw every reasonable inference in favor of the
plaintiffs. Garita Hotel Ltd. Partnership v. Ponce Fed. Bank, 958 F.2d 15, 17 (1st Cir.1992) (Rule
12(b)(6) motion); Santiago de Castro v. Morales Medina, 943 F.2d 129, 130 (1st Cir.1991) (Rule 12(c)
motion). Great specificity is not required to survive a Rule 12(c) motion. “[I]t is enough for a
plaintiff to sketch an actionable claim by means of ‘a generalized statement of facts.’ ” Garita,
958 F.2d at 17 (quoting 5A Charles A. Wright & Arthur R. Miller, Federal Practice and Procedure 1357
(1990)). In the end, the court may not enter judgment on the pleadings unless it appears “ ‘beyond
doubt that the plaintiff can prove no set of facts in support of his or her claim which would
entitle him or her to relief.’” Santiago de Castro, 943 F.2d at 130 (quoting Conley v. Gibson, 355
U.S. 41, 45-46, 78 S.Ct. 99, 101-102, 2 L.Ed.2d 80 (1957)); see also Rivera-Gomez v. de Castro, 843
F.2d 631, 635 (1st Cir.1988). I. Agent’s Liability for Torts Metromedia claims that once it served
notice of the termination of the license agreement the defendants’ continued operation of the
restaurant and use of the Bonanza name and marks infringed § 32 of the Lanham Act, 15 U.S.C.A. §
1114, and violated the common law of trademarks. Metromedia asserts the infringement caused consumer
confusion and deceived the general public into believing that the Rochester restaurant was run by
Bonanza. Verified Complaint, ¶¶ 29-38. Metromedia also claims that the defendants engaged in acts of
unfair competition in violation of the common law and § 43(a) of the Lanham Act, 15 U.S.C.A. §
1125(a), by advertising, displaying and selling products with Metromedia’s proprietary marks at the
Rochester restaurant. Id. at ¶¶ 39^5. Mather does not dispute Metromedia’s substantive allegations.
Rather, he contends the court must dismiss the claims against him because he is not and was never an
“owner, officer or director of the defendant Resco Management, Inc.” Defendant’s Motion to Dismiss,
¶ 1. Pursuant to the plain language of the Lanham Act, any individual may be liable in civil actions
for damages. Section 32 of the Lanham Act states, in part: (1) Any person who shall, without the
consent of the registrant— (a) use in commerce any reproduction, counterfeit, copy, or colorable
imitation of a registered mark in connection with the sale, offering for sale, distribution, or
advertising of any goods or services on or in connection with which such use is likely to cause
confusion, or to cause mistake, or to deceive ... ‡ ‡ Í! ‡ ‡ ‡ shall be liable in a civil action by
the registrant for the remedies hereinafter provided. 15 U.S.C.A. § 1114 (West 1963 & Supp.1994)
(emphasis added). Likewise, the unfair competition statute, § 43(a) of the Lanham Act, uses similar
language for determining liability: (а)(1) Any person who, on or in connection with any goods or
services, or any container for goods, uses in commerce any word, term, name, symbol, or device ...
which— (A) is likely to cause confusion, or to cause mistake, or to deceive as to the affiliation,
connection ... or as to the origin, sponsorship,, or approval of his or her goods, services, or
commercial activities by another person, or (B) in commercial advertising or promotion,
misrepresents the nature, characteristics, qualities ... of his or her or another person’s goods,
services, or commercial activities, shall be liable in a civil action by any person who believes
that he or she is or is likely to be damaged by such act. 15 U.S.C.A. § 1125(a) (West 1983 & Supp.
1994) (emphasis added). Under the Lanham Act employees of corporations are not shielded from
individual liability for tortious actions solely because those actions were taken within the scope
of their employment. Donsco, Inc. v. Casper Corp., 587 F.2d 602, 606 (3d Cir.1978) (corporate
officer is personally liable for torts he commits); Mead Johnson & Co. v. Baby’s Formula Serv.,
Inc., 402 F.2d 19, 23 (5th Cir.1968) (corporate officer liable for trademark infringement);
Brandywine Mushroom Co. v. Hockessin Mushroom Prod., Inc., 682 F.Supp. 1307, 1311 (D.Del.1988)
(officer of corporation personally liable for tort of unfair competition); Polo Fashions, Inc. v.
Gordon Group, 627 F.Supp. 878, 890 (M.D.N.C.1985) (corporate officer liable for trademark
infringement and unfair competition); In re Table Talk, Inc., 49 B.R. 485, 487 (D.Mass.1985)
(individual acting in corporate capacity is liable for trademark infringement); Polo Fashions, Inc.
v. Branded Apparel Merchandising, Inc., 592 F.Supp. 648, 652 (D.Mass.1984) (corporate officer is
individually liable for trademark infringement). There can be no doubt but that a trademark, like a
patent, can be infringed by an individual. It is infringed when an individual performs the act or
does the things that the patent or trademark law protects against. The fact that the persons thus
acting are acting for a corporation also, of course, may make the corporation liable under the
doctrine of respondeat superior. It does not relieve the individuals of their responsibility. Mead,
402 F.2d at 23. “The only crucial predicate to [an individual’s] liability is his participation in
the wrongful acts.” Donsco, 587 F.2d at 606. While the above cases establish the liability of
employees who are officers or directors of a corporation, Mather contends that because he is a lower
level employee of Resco, principles of agency relieve him from individual liability. Defendant’s
Motion to Dismiss, ¶¶ 2, 6. Mather asserts that as an agent of Resco the “principal is liable for
the conduct of its agent when said agent acts within the scope of his authority.” Id. at ¶ 6. Mather
fails to cite any authority for his assertion. “An agent who does an act otherwise a tort is not
relieved from liability by the fact that he acted at the command of the principal or on account of
the principal_” Restatement (Second) of Agency § 343 (1958). “An individual, including a director,
officer, or agent of a corporation, may be hable for injuries suffered by third parties because of
his torts, regardless of whether he acted on his own account or on behalf of the corporation.” Al-
Khazraji v. St. Francis College, 784 F.2d 505, 518 (3d Cir.1986) (emphasis added), aff'd, 481 U.S.
604, 107 S.Ct. 2022, 95 L.Ed.2d 582 (1987); see also In re Interstate Agency, Inc., 760 F.2d 121,
125 (6th Cir.1985) (“ ‘It is weh established that a corporate officer or agent is personally hable
for torts committed by him even though he was acting for the benefit of the corporation.’ ”)
(quoting A & M Records, Inc. v. M.V.C. Distrib. Corp., 574 F.2d 312 (6th Cir.1978)). Although the
New Hampshire Supreme Court has not considered the issue of an agent’s liability to third parties
for torts, the rule of § 343 is weh estabhshed. See Raysor v. Port Auth., 768 F.2d 34, 38 (2d
Cir.1985), cert. denied, 475 U.S. 1027, 106 S.Ct. 1227, 89 L.Ed.2d 337 (1986); Powe v. Miles, 407
F.2d 73, 82 (2d Cir.1968); Kalawe v. KFC Nat’l Management Co., No. 90-00779 ACK, 1991 WL 338566, at
*3-*4, 1991 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 20073, at *9-*10 (D.Haw. July 16, 1991); Massachusetts v. Zimmerman,
1982-1 Trade Cas. (CCH) ¶ 64, 471, 1982 WL 1793 (D.Mass. January 13, 1982). An individual is hable
for his tor-tious conduct under §§ 32 and 43(a) of the Lanham Act. Under agency law, an agent is not
reheved of liability solely because he acted on behalf of the principal. Therefore, the action
against Mather cannot be dismissed based on Mather’s status as an employee or agent of Resco. II.
Contractual Relationship Mather next contends that any cause of action Metromedia may have is solely
related to the contractual relationship between Me-tromedia and Resco and Ernst. Mather argues that
because he never entered into any individual contracts with Metromedia and was never a party to the
contracts between Metromedia and Resco and Ernst, he is not liable for matters related to these
contracts. Defendant’s Motion to Dismiss, ¶ 3. As noted above, any individual may be hable for
trademark infringement or unfair competition under the Lanham Act. No special or contractual
relationship is required. See 15 U.S.C.A. §§ 1114, 1125(a) (West 1963 & Supp.1994). Liability for
common law trademark infringement and unfair competition does not require a breach of a contractual
relationship because trademark infringement is a tort. See Donsco, 587 F.2d at 606; Mead, 402 F.2d
at 23; Brandywine, 682 F.Supp. at 1311; Polo Fashions, 627 F.Supp. at 890; In re Table Talk, 49 B.R.
at 487; Branded Apparel, 592 F.Supp. at 652. Mather remains hable for his own torts regardless of
his relationship to the contract between Metromedia and Resco and Ernst. A contractual relationship
is not an essential element of the claims asserted against him. Therefore, the action cannot be
dismissed based on the lack of a contractual relationship between Metromedia and Mather. III.
Automatic Stay Mather also notes that Resco has filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy pursuant to 11
U.S.C.A. § 362 (West 1993). He contends that Reseo’s bankruptcy petition, “pre-clud[es] entry of
judgment for the underlying corporate obligations that form the basis of the cause of action.”
Defendant’s Motion to Dismiss, ¶ 8. The court assumes that Mather is arguing either that the action
against him must also be stayed or that the action against him should be dismissed because of the
stay.


