**gold_text:**
. See generally, 3 Collier On Bankruptcy, (15th ed.) paragraph 502.02 (1990). See also, Butner v.
U.S., 440 U.S. 48, 99 S.Ct. 914, 59 L.Ed.2d 136 (1979); In re MacDonald, 114 B.R. 326 (D.Mass.
1990); In re Milford Common J.V. Trust, 117 B.R. 15 (Bkrtcy.Mass., 1990).

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW (continued)  In Butner v. United States, 440 U.S. 48, 55, the Supreme Court
emphasized that property rights in the assets of a bankrupt's estate are determined by state law
unless a federal interest dictates otherwise. In this case, we must determine the debtor's
obligations under Puerto Rican law and assess the applicability of interest on the debt owed to
Nelson Torres Ruiz.  Consistent with the principles outlined in 114 B.R. 326, the determination of
whether the debtor has a legal or equitable interest in the obligation to return the $3,000 option
money necessitates an analysis grounded in applicable nonbankruptcy state law. Article 1061 of the
P.R. Civil Code, 31 Laws of P.R.Ann., Section 3025, establishes that where a debtor fails to perform
an obligation, the creditor is entitled to interest as indemnification for damages and losses
incurred.  Debtor's claim of impossibility of performance is addressed under Article 1138 of the
Civil Code of Puerto Rico, but as established earlier, such a defense is unwarranted when the
impossibility is not due to legal or physical barriers (31 Laws of P.R.Ann., Section 3193). Given
the absence of such barriers, the return of the $3,000 is mandated.  Furthermore, in alignment with
117 B.R. 15, the initiation of bankruptcy proceedings does not alter the creditor’s right to claim
interest at the legal rate. Should the contract fail to specify an interest rate, Article 1061
defaults to a legal interest rate of 6% per annum.  Thus, Mr. Bonilla is obliged to reimburse the
full amount of $3,000 plus the applicable legal interest rate of 6% from the expiration of the
option contract until the filing of the bankruptcy petition.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
 Expert analysis of the legal cases provided reveals that the rights of creditors Nelson and
Elizabeth Torres to the payment of interest on Claim # 13 should be determined according to
applicable state law. In this case, the Civil Code of Puerto Rico is relevant.  As stated in Article
1138 of the Civil Code of Puerto Rico, "In obligations to do, the debtor shall also be released when
the prestation appears to be legally or physically impossible." However, as mentioned in Butner v.
United States, 440 U.S. 48 (1979), the legal and physical impossibility contemplated by law are not
present in this contested matter.  Furthermore, Article 1061 of the P.R.Civil Code provides that
when the obligation consists in the payment of a sum of money, and the person incurs in default, the
creditor is entitled to be indemnified for damages and losses suffered, which will consist in the
payment of interest. In the absence of an agreed-upon interest rate, the legal interest rate at 6%
per annum shall be applied, as stated in 11 U.S.C. Section 502(b)(2).  In reference to Bankruptcy
Judge James F. Queenan, Jr.'s opinion in In re Prichard Plaza Associates Limited Partnership, 84
B.R. 289 (Bkrtcy.D.Mass.1988), the Court finds that Mr. Bonilla must reimburse the full amount of
the option contract paid by Mr. Torres, plus interest at the legal rate of 6% per year, from the
date the option contract expired to the date this petition was filed.  Also, considering the
reference case 114 B.R. 326, U.S.C. § 363(b)(1), "Property of the estate" includes "all legal or
equitable interests of the debtor in property as of the commencement of the case." However, in this
case, the option contract was signed before the bankruptcy petition was filed, and the plot of land
was sold after the filing with the authority of the Court.  In conclusion, based on the analysis of
the legal cases provided, the Court concludes that the creditors Nelson and Elizabeth Torres are
entitled to the payment of interest on Claim # 13, and the applicable interest rate is 6% per annum,
as stated in 11 U.S.C. Section 502(b)(2).


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['440 U.S. 48', '114 B.R. 326', '117 B.R. 15']

***short_citations_0:*** 440 U.S. 48

506 F. 2d 1242, 1243 (CA4 1974). See generally 4A W. Collier, Bankruptcy ¶ 70.16, pp. 157-165 (14th ed. 1975); Hill, The Erie Doctrine in Bankruptcy, 66 Harv. L. Rev. 1013 (1953). In some title States, the mortgagee’s right to rents and profits may be exercised even prior to default, see Me. Rev. Stat. Ann., Tit. 33, § 502 (1964); in all events, the right at least attaches upon default, see Uvalda Naval Stores Co. v. Cullen, 165 Ga. 115, 117, 139 S. E. 810, 811 (1927). See generally R. Kratovil, Modern Mortgage Law and Practice § 294, p. 204 (1972); Comment, The Mortgagee’s Right to Rents and Profits Following a Petition in Bankruptcy, 60 Iowa L. Rev. 1388, 1390-1391 (1975). North Carolina has been classified as a “title” State, Comment, The Mortgagee’s Right to Rents After Default, 50 Yale L. J. 1424, 1425 n. 6 (1941), although it does not adhere to this theory in its purest form. Under its case law, a mortgagee is entitled to possession of the mortgaged property upon default, and need not await actual foreclosure. Such possession might be secured either with the consent of the mortgagor or by an action in ejectment. But so long as the mortgagor does remain in possession, even after default, he — not the mortgagee — appears to be entitled to the rents and profits. See Brannock v. Fletcher, 271 N. C. 65, 155 S. E. 2d 532 (1967); Gregg v. Williamson, 246 N. C. 356, 98 S.

***short_citations_1:*** 114 B.R. 326

U.S.C. § 363(b)(1). “Property of the estate” includes “all legal or equitable interests of the debtor in property as of the commencement of the case.” 11 U.S.C. § 541(a)(1). It is “necessary to look to nonbankruptcy law, usually state law, to determine whether the debtor has any legal or equitable interest in any particular item.” 4 Collier on Bankruptcy, ¶ 541.02[1] at 541-13 (15th ed. 1989). Since “property interests are created and defined by state law,” such interests are analyzed under state law in bankruptcy proceedings unless “some federal interest requires a different result.” Butner v. United States, 440 U.S. 48, 55, 99 S.Ct. 914, 918, 59 L.Ed.2d 136 (1979). See also In re Prichard Plaza Associates Ltd. Partnership, 84 B.R. 289, 293 (Bankr.D.Mass.1988). This Court’s resolution of the dispute over the debtor’s interest in Spectrum Wire is grounded in state corporations law, and takes into account the equitable powers of the bankruptcy court. However, in light of the bankruptcy court decision under review, this Court’s analysis of the appellants’ ownership interest in the Spectrum Wire stock must begin with a discussion of the Massachusetts law of trusts. A. Stock as the Subject Matter of an Express Trust The bankruptcy court found that conduct and verbal agreements by the debtor’s father “manifested an intention to hold in trust for the Debtor the shares of Spectrum stock standing in the father’s name.” In re MacDonald, 101 B.R. at 841. This conclusion, that an express trust was created by the debtor’s father,

***short_citations_2:*** 117 B.R. 15

order against the debtor. The automatic stay prevented any further action by the Bank, including service of the restraining order. The debtor has remained in physical possession and has continued to collect all of its rents. The Bank promptly filed with the bankruptcy court an emergency motion for relief from stay and for authority to continue with its possession and to collect the rents. The law was clarified by the United States Supreme Court in 1979 in the case of Butner v. United States, 440 U.S. 48, 99 S.Ct. 914, 59 L.Ed.2d 136, 4 B.C.D. 1259. The court held that: ... Congress has generally left the determination of property rights in the assets of a bankrupt’s estate to state law. Property interests are created and defined by state law. Unless some federal interest requires a different result, there is no reason why such interests should be analyzed differently simply because an interested party is involved in a bankruptcy proceeding. Looking to Massachusetts law, an assignment of rent gives the mortgagee a valid security interest which becomes effective upon a default and an overt act by the mortgagee to take actual or constructive possession. Bankruptcy does not change the assignee/mortgagee’s right to the rent so long as possession was obtained pre-fil-ing, or a request is made to the bankruptcy-court for relief. The matter was further extensively analyzed by Bankruptcy Judge James F. Queenan, Jr. in the case of In re Prichard Plaza Associates Limited Partnership, 84 B.R. 289 (Bkrtcy.D.Mass.1988). For a

**prev_text:**
OPINION AND ORDER SARA E. de JESUS, Bankruptcy Judge. The matter pending before the Court is whether
creditors Nelson and Elizabeth Torres are entitled to the payment of interest on Claim # 13, and the
applicable interest rate. Pursuant to Debtor’s request for a valuation of claim # 13, we held an
evidentiary hearing. The parties have agreed to the following facts: “a. That on July 22, 1980,
Nelson Torres Ruiz and Adrián Bonilla Montalvo signed an Option Contract for the purchase of a plot
of land marked number twenty (20). b. The price of said plot of land was $7,250.00, of which at the
signing of the Option Contract, Nelson Torres Ruiz paid Adrián Bonilla Montalvo the sum of $500.00
and later that same day paid him $2,500.00 for a total of $3,000.00. c. The Option Contract
enumerated a period of two years from the date of signing within which the debtor, Adrián Bonilla
Montalvo, was to execute the purchase deed or reimburse Nelson Torres Ruiz the sum of $3,000.00. ,
d. That Mr. Nelson Torres Ruiz was single when he entered into an option agreement for certain lot
of land on July 22, 1980. e. That Mr. Nelson Torres Ruiz gave Mr. Adrián Bonilla $3,000.00 as option
money- f. That debtor according to clause # 6 of the option contract is obliged, and has accepted to
do so, to return to this creditor the $3,000.00. g. That debtor has recognized the debt of $3,000.00
owed to Mr. Nelson Torres and has scheduled the same as $900.00 priority and $2,100.00 as general
unsecured claim. h. Mrs. Elizabeth Hermida de Torres married Mr. Nelson Torres Ruiz after the option
contract was signed. i. Mrs. Elizabeth Hermida de Torres was not a party to the option contract
signed on July 22, 1980 by debtor and Mr. Nelson Torres. j. .That on January 12, 1984, Mrs.
Elizabeth Hermida de Torres was deputy clerk of the Superior Court of Puerto Rico, Courtroom of
Mayaguez. k. That Banco Comercial de Mayaguez filed suit number 81-1138 against debtor and his ex-
wife on the Superior Court of Puerto Rico, Courtroom of Mayaguez. l. That on June 7, 1983 Attorney
Jovino Martinez wrote a letter to debtor on behalf of Mr. Nelson Torres requesting the return of the
option money given by him to debt- or. m. The plot of land where Mr. Nelson Torres had his option
was sold after the filing for relief and with the authority of this Court.” Two Joint Exhibits were
also admitted: the Option contract executed by the Debtor and Nelson Torres on July 22, 1980; and a
letter dated June 7, 1983 from Attorney Jovino Martinez Ramirez to Attorney Adrián Bonilla Montalvo
requesting the return of the money paid by Mr. Torres plus legal interest. CONCLUSIONS OF LAW In
bankruptcy, issues as to the validity and legality of a claim are determined pursuant to applicable
state law. Thus, we must decide the question at hand by applying the pertinent Articles of the Civil
Code of P.R. The option contract executed by Debtor and Nelson Torres Ruiz, called for the execution
of the deed of sale within two years from July 22, 1980. However, the contractual terms also
required Mr. Bonilla to return the total price for the option, if he could not obtain the permits
required by the local government allowing him to segregate and sell the optioned plot, within this
same two year period. The contract does not mention interest payments. The Debtor raises the defense
of impossibility of compliance with the obligation in order to release himself from the obligation
and/or any liability. Mr. Bonilla claims a legal and physical impossibility based on events which
occured almost six years after the Option contract had expired, and, in any event, these events
concern his fiscal or monetary problems. Article 1138 of the Civil Code of Puerto Rico, 31 Laws of
P.R.Ann., Section 3193, provides that, “In obligations to do, the debtor shall also be released when
the prestation appears to be legally or physically impossible.” However, Debtor’s reliance on this
Article of the Civil Code is unwarranted inasmuch as the legal and physical impossibility
contemplated by law are not present in this contested matter. Article 1061 of the P.R.Civil Code, 31
Laws of P.R.Ann., Section 3025, provides that when the obligation consists in the payment of a sum
of money, and the person incurs in default, the creditor is entitled to be indemnified for damages
and losses suffered, which will consist in the payment of interest. If the parties failed to agree
upon the payment of interest and or the interest rate, then the interest to be paid will be the
legal interest at the applicable rate. Furthermore, “Until another rate is fixed by the Government,
interest at the rate of six percent per annum shall be considered as legal.” Under these
circumstances, Mr. Bonilla must reimburse the full amount of the option contract paid by Mr. Torres,
plus interest at the legal rate of 6% per year, from the date the option contract expired to the
date this petition was filed, pursuant to 11 U.S.C. Section 502(b)(2). . During the hearing, Nelson
Torres Ruiz and his wife Elizabeth waived their claims for damages other than interest discussed
herein. . 11 U.S.C. Section 502(c)(2). . It was also undisputed that Debtor was not able to secure
the government permits needed to segregate and sell the plot to the Optionee, and the deed of sale
was never executed. . The Court takes judicial notice that the petition for bankruptcy pursuant to
Chapter 11 of the Code was entered on February 19, 1987; and that Nelson and Elizabeth Torres, filed
proof of claim no. 13 in the amount of $25,-000.00. Attached thereto are the copies of the following
documents: the option contract entered into by the debtor Adrián Bonilla Montal-vo and Nelson Torres
Ruiz on July 22, 1980; the complaint filed by Mr. Torres Ruiz against the debtor before the Superior
Court of Puerto Rico, Mayaguez Part, Civil No. CS-88-896, for collection of money and damages; and a
copy of a sworn statement of Nelson Torres Ruiz dated June 22, 1988. .During the hearing the parties
testified this suit was stayed by the filing of this petition.


