**gold_text:**
Our own decisions are not in very good array. In Carlton v. United States, 9 Cir., 1952, 198 F.2d
795, 797, we held that the defendant’s “record of previous convictions of similar or related
criminal offenses, both misdemeanors and felonies ” are admissible as “rebuttal evidence after the
defendant has introduced a defense of entrapment.” (p. 797; emphasis in original.) Trice v. United
States, 9 Cir., 1954, 211 F.2d 513, is similar to Washington v. United States, supra, in holding
that hearsay evidence that Trice was an opium dealer was admissible, not to prove the truth of the
hearsay, but to prove the good faith of the government agent. (211 F.2d at 516-518) It bears
emphasizing that defense counsel in Trice did not object. This is not a holding that such evidence
is admissible to prove Trice's predisposition.

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
4. Admissibility of Prior Criminal Acts in Entrapment Defense  The key issue here involves the
permissible scope of rebuttal evidence once the defense of entrapment has been introduced. McClain
argues that the court erred by admitting hearsay testimony regarding his predisposition to commit
the offense. As established in reference case 198 F.2d 795, prior criminal acts can be admissible to
show intent, general scheme, or predisposition when entrapment is raised. This principle aligns with
the ruling in Sorrells v. United States, 287 U.S. 435, where the court allowed the introduction of
an accused's previous criminal acts to counter the entrapment defense.  Additionally, citing
reference case 211 F.2d 513, predisposition and criminal design of the defendant are considered
relevant. The court has consistently recognized that the defense of entrapment permits a searching
inquiry into the defendant’s conduct and predisposition. Thus, prior criminal activities related to
drugs are admissible to rebut McClain's entrapment claims.  In light of these precedents, the trial
court did not err in admitting testimony that indicated McClain’s predisposition, which included
past conduct and statements that he was a good outlet for cocaine. This evidence was crucial in
responding to McClain’s entrapment defense and aligns with established judicial practice.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
 <answer> The court's decision to allow the hearsay testimony about Dusty Wooten's statement about
McClain's predisposition to commit the offense is inconsistent with the principles of the hearsay
doctrine. The testimony was admitted as evidence to show McClain's predisposition to commit the
crime, but it was based on an anonymous informant's statement, which is unreliable.  The Fifth
Circuit's decision in United States v. Washington, 275 F.2d 687, 690 (5th Cir. 1960), which allowed
the admission of similar hearsay testimony, has been criticized for its lack of rationale. The
court's decision was based on the notion that the government agent's good faith belief that the
defendant was a dealer was sufficient to establish the defendant's predisposition to commit the
crime. However, this approach is flawed because it relies on unreliable hearsay evidence.  The
Supreme Court's decision in United States v. Russell, 411 U.S. 423, 427 (1972), emphasized the
importance of the defendant's state of mind in determining predisposition. However, the Fifth
Circuit's approach ignores this principle and instead focuses on the government agent's good faith
belief.  The admission of this hearsay testimony also undermines the principle of due process, as it
allows the government to introduce unreliable evidence without any basis for its reliability. The
testimony was admitted without any opportunity for the defendant to cross-examine the witness or to
verify the accuracy of the statement.  In conclusion, the court's decision to admit the hearsay
testimony about Dusty Wooten's statement is inconsistent with the principles of the hearsay doctrine
and due process. The testimony was unreliable and lacked any basis for its reliability. This
decision undermines the integrity of the criminal justice system and raises concerns about the
reliability of the evidence used to convict defendants.  References: 1. United States v. Washington,
275 F.2d 687, 690 (5th Cir. 1960). 2. United States v. Russell, 411 U.S. 423, 427 (1972). 3. United
States v. Fink, 502 F.2d 1, 4-5 (5th Cir. 1974). 4. United States v. Brooks, 477 F.2d 453 (5th Cir.
1973). 5. United States v. Robinson, 446 F.2d 562, 563-4 (5th


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-finetuned:***
  In United States v. McClain, 9 Cir., 1974, 198 F.2d 795, we held that the government could not
introduce evidence of a defendant’s prior criminal conduct, without a showing of the reliability of
the informant who reported the conduct. In United States v. Carlton, 9 Cir., 1952, 211 F.2d 513, we
held that the government could not introduce evidence of a defendant’s prior criminal conduct,
without a showing of the reliability of the informant who reported the conduct. In Sorrells v.
United States, 1932, 287 U.S. 435, 53 S.Ct. 210, 77 L.Ed. 413, the Court held that the government
could not introduce evidence of a defendant’s prior criminal conduct, without a showing of the
reliability of the informant who reported the conduct. In Sherman v. United States, 1958, 356 U.S.
369, 78 S.Ct. 819, 2 L.Ed.2d 848, the Court held that the government could not introduce evidence of
a defendant’s prior criminal conduct, without a showing of the reliability of the informant who
reported the conduct. In United States v. Ambrose, 6 Cir., 1973, 483 F.2d 742, the court held that
hearsay evidence of a defendant’s prior criminal conduct, without a showing of the reliability of
the informant who reported the conduct, is inadmissible. In United States v. Payne, 9 Cir., 1970,
429 F.2d 169, we held that hearsay evidence of a defendant’s prior criminal conduct, without a
showing of the reliability of the informant who reported the conduct, is inadmissible. In United
States v. Watson, 9 Cir., 1974, 504 F.2d 849, we held that hearsay evidence of a defendant’s prior
criminal conduct, without a showing of the reliability of the informant who reported the conduct, is
inadmissible. In United States v. Fink, 5 Cir., 1974, 502 F.2d 1, 4-5, we held that hearsay evidence
of a defendant’s prior criminal conduct, without a showing of the reliability of the informant who
reported the conduct, is inadmissible. In United States v. Brooks, 5 Cir., 1973, 477 F.2d 453, we
held


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['198 F.2d 795', '211 F.2d 513']

***short_citations_0:*** 198 F.2d 795

of other crimes, according to appellant’s theory, must be excluded because its probative value is outweighed by its possible prejudicial effect. The prosecution insists that when a defendant raises the defense of entrapment (as here) his record of previous convictions of similar or related criminal offenses, both misdemeanors and felonies, becomes admissible as evidence in rebuttal. In its brief it suggests that it is unnecessary, on this appeal, to consider the general rule that past criminal acts are inadmissible in the prosecution’s case in chief to prove a defendant’s predisposition to commit the crime charged. Nor should we consider the exceptions to that rule, which permit the prosecution to prove, in its case in chief, an accused’s previous criminal acts in order to show intent, general scheme or design, motive, etc. We agree that such questions are extraneous to the instant issue. The precise problem here posed concerns-the scope of permissible rebuttal evidence after the defendant has introduced a defense of entrapment. That is the question-we here decide. The controlling decision is Sorrells v. United States, 1932, 287 U.S. 435, 53 S.Ct. 210, 216, 77 L.Ed. 413. There, the prosecution contended that the defense of entrapment must be raised as a plea in bar before trial, and could not be raised during the trial itself under a plea of not guilty. In arguing its case, the prosecution insisted to the court that the trial of the entrapment issue before a jury would prejudice a defendant, inasmuch as rebuttal evidence relating

***short_citations_1:*** 211 F.2d 513

sold any intoxicating liquor prior to the transaction in question. The court held that “[t]he predisposition and criminal design of the defendant are relevant.” 287 U.S. at page 451, 53 S.Ct. at page 216. See, also, our recent case of Carlton v. United States, 9 Cir., 1952, 198 F.2d 795, for a discussion of the Sorrells opinion; United States v. Sherman, 2 Cir., 1952, 200 F.2d 880, 881, at page 882, et seq. for an analysis of the Sorrells opinion wherein the second circuit deduces the following excuses for the officers’ inducement: “ ‘an existing course of similar criminal conduct; the accused’s already formed design to commit the crime or similar crimes; his willingness to do so, as evinced by ready complaisance.’ ” [Emphasis ours.] The quotation we have just used was quoted in the Sherman case from the court’s opinion in United States v. Becker, 2 Cir., 1933, 62 F.2d 1007, 1008. A comprehensive annotation to the case of Butts v. United States, 8 Cir., 1921, 273 F. 35, may be found at pages 146 et seq. of 18 A.L.R. See, also, our decision in Woo Wai v. United States, 9 Cir., 1915, 223 F. 412, and in Stein v. United States, 9 Cir., 1948, 166 F.2d 851, 853. After a thorough study of the authorities, we approve the measure of excuses for the officers’ inducement as stated in the second circuit’s Becker case, supra. Whatever plausible ground for argument there may be in support of the claim that

**prev_text:**
OPINION Before DUNIWAY and ELY, Circuit Judges, and SOLOMON, District Judge. DUNIWAY, Circuit Judge.
McClain appeals from a judgment of conviction entered upon a jury’s verdict that he is guilty of
possession of just over a kilogram of cocaine with intent to distribute it, in violation of 21
U.S.C. § 841(a)(1). We affirm. 1. Facts We state only such facts as are necessary to an
understanding of the questions presented, and in doing so we consider the evidence in the light most
favorable to the government, the jury having found in its favor. In early June, 1974, Agent Geoffrey
Green of the Drug Enforcement Administration, stationed at Las Vegas, Nevada, was taken by F.B.I.
Agent Zimmerman to a mountain lodge northwest of Las Vegas called Mt. Charleston. There, Green was
introduced to two men, the proprietors of the lodge, named Peterson and Cobb. Cobb told Green that a
man whom he knew as “James” was offering cocaine for sale in kilogram lots. Green told Cobb that
when Cobb heard from “James” again, Cobb should tell “James” that he had a friend who would be
interested in buying kilo quantities of cocaine. After again hearing from Cobb, Green arranged to
have Cobb flown to San Diego on June 26. Later that day, Cobb telephoned Green, and Green then flew
to San Diego. He telephoned Cobb at a hotel and then met him there. Cobb called “James” and Green
talked to him, arranging to meet him at the hotel lounge. The proposed transaction was a sale by
“James” to Green of a kilogram of cocaine for $35,000. Cobb told Green that “James” would probably
be driving one of two cars which Cobb described in precise detail. “James,” who turned out to be
defendant McClain, arrived at about 11:30 p. m. After some negotiations over the price to be paid,
McClain told Green that “the coke” was nearby in his car, which was in the hotel parking lot. Cobb
was sent out to see whether the cocaine was in the car, the Volkswagen previously described by Cobb
to Green. Cobb reported that it- was there and told where it was hidden. Green, Cobb, and McClain
then left the building in which the meeting took place so that Green could show McClain the money.
On a signal by Green, McClain was arrested by waiting officers. A small amount of cocaine was found
on his person. Immediately after the arrest, and at Green’s direction, other officers searched
McClain’s car without a warrant and recovered the cocaine. It was hidden where McClain had said that
it was. McClain’s defense was that Peterson and Cobb had it in for him because he had borrowed
$1,000 from Cobb and not paid it back, and that they had coerced him into handling the cocaine for
them. He said that in late May Peterson, Cobb and one Hailing came to his cabin in Ramona near San
Diego, and that Peterson had beaten him up, that the beating stopped only when he promised to do
whatever he was told to do, and that he was in fear of his life. Because Cobb’s expenses in going to
San Diego, or part of them, were paid by the government, the court submitted the issue of entrapment
to the jury. It also submitted the issue of coercion. In partial response to these defenses, the
court, over proper objection, permitted the government to present testimony by two witnesses that
one Dusty Wooten, an acquaintance of McClain’s, had said that McClain was a good outlet for cocaine.
McClain makes three legal arguments for reversal, which we consider separately. 2. Validity of the
Search of McClain’s Car McClain argues that the search of his car violated his rights under the
fourth amendment and that therefore the court erred in denying his motion to suppress the cocaine
found in the car. We cannot agree. There can be no question that Agent Green had probable cause for
the search. McClain himself had told Green that the cocaine was in the car and where it was hidden
in the car. Cobb had confirmed what McClain had said. Thus the only arguable question is whether the
agents should have obtained a search warrant. In considering that question, we must attempt to
reconcile the irreconcilable, the decisions of the Supreme Court in Chambers v. Maroney, 1970, 399
U.S. 42, 90 S.Ct. 1975, 26 L.Ed.2d 419 and Coolidge v. New Hampshire, 1971, 403 U.S. 443, 91 S.Ct.
2022, 29 L.Ed.2d 564. We may not succeed in accomplishing the reconciliation, but we find Chambers
and later cases that follow it applicable here. In Carroll v. United States, 1925, 267 U.S. 132, 45
S.Ct. 280, 69 L.Ed. 543, the Court upheld a warrantless search of a car stopped on the open highway
where the occupants were not arrested, on the grounds that the opportunity to search was fleeting.
Had the car not been searched on the spot, the occupants could have driven it away before a warrant
could be obtained. In Chambers, supra, the defendant bank robbers were fleeing in a car. The police
stopped the car and, having probable cause, arrested the occupants. Instead of searching the car on
the spot, the police took it to the police station and searched it there, without having obtained a
warrant. The Court upheld the warrantless search. It reasoned that, under Carroll, supra, the police
could have searched the car on the spot because otherwise, to prevent possible loss of the evidence,
they would have had to impound the car while they obtained a warrant. It then concluded that
impoundment was no less an intrusion than a search would have been, that either would be reasonable,
and that it was not necessary for the police to obtain a warrant before searching the impounded car.
Our case differs in two respects. First, the car was not impounded; it was searched on the spot.
This, we think, is immaterial under the Chambers rationale. Second, the defendant was not arrested
while driving the car, nor on a public highway. He had parked it in a large hotel parking lot and
left it there while he went to meet the informant and the undercover agent. This difference, too, we
think to be immaterial. Here, as in Chambers, the car was in a public place late at night,
accessible to anyone who might want to reach it. Here, as in Chambers, McClain could have had
accomplices in the vicinity who might drive the car away while the agents were getting a warrant.
Here, as in Chambers, the alternative to an immediate search that would assure the continued
availability of the car and its contents was to impound it. Chambers makes it clear that the police
need not adopt this alternative, but may search at once. Were it not for Coolidge, supra, we would
unhesitatingly follow Chambers in this case. In Coolidge, the police went to- the suspect’s home to
arrest him. Having arrested him in the house, they also searched his car, which was sitting in his
driveway. They had no warrant, but had cause on the basis of which they could have obtained one,
both for Coolidge’s arrest and for the search of his car. The Court held that the search violated
the fourth amendment. It said, first, that Coolidge, being under arrest, had no way to get at the
car. That is equally true of McClain in our case. Coolidge’s wife was told by the police that she
must leave the house and could not use the car, and the police took her to the home of a relative in
another town. And the house was guarded throughout the night by two policemen. Finally, in a
footnote, the Court made the following statement, which bothers us somewhat. In this case, it is, of
course, true that even though Coolidge was in jail, his wife was miles away in the company of two
plainclothesmen, and the Coolidge property was under the guard of two other officers, the automobile
was in a literal sense “mobile.” A person who had the keys and could slip by the guard could drive
it away. We attach no constitutional significance to this sort of mobility. Fn. 18, 403 U.S. at 461,
91 S.Ct. at 2035. It strikes us that these are just the sort of possibilities that were held to
justify the police action in Chambers. Be that as it may, we think that the ultimate Coolidge
rationale is stated in the opinion (403 U.S. at 462, 91 S.Ct. at 2035) as follows: And surely there
is nothing in this case- to invoke the meaning and purpose of the rule of Carroll v. United States —
no alerted criminal bent on flight, no fleeting opportunity on an open highway after a hazardous
chase, no contraband or stolen goods or weapons, no confederates waiting to move the evidence, not
even the inconvenience of a special police detail to guard the immobilized automobile. In short, by
no possible stretch of the legal imagination can this be made into a case where “it is not
practicable to secure a warrant,” Carroll, supra, at 153, 45 S.Ct., at 285, and the “automobile
exception,” despite its label, is simply irrelevant. The case at bar differs in what we regard as
crucial respects. Here the car, while not on “an open highway,” was in a public place, readily
accessible to anyone who might want access. Here there was contraband, valued by McClain at $35,000.
Here, especially because of the value of the contraband, there could well have been confederates
waiting to move the evidence. Moreover, Cobb had told Agent Green “that there might be other people
in the area.” In addition, the arrest occurred in the middle of the night and the officers did not
know, until not more than half an hour before, which car would be used or whether contraband would
be in it. Obtaining a warrant in advance would hardly have been possible. Here there would have been
the inconvenience of a special police detail to guard the immobilized automobile, or the alternative
used in Chambers, impoundment. But for the subsequent cases we might have concluded that Coolidge
has severely limited Chambers, but those cases indicate to us that it has not. See, e. g., Cady v.
Dombrowski, 1973, 413 U.S. 433, 93 S.Ct. 2523, 37 L.Ed.2d 706, in which the majority relies, in
part, on Chambers and the dissent relies heavily on Coolidge; Cardwell v. Lewis, 1974, 417 U.S. 583,
94 S.Ct. 2464, 41 L.Ed.2d 325, in which again the majority relies, in part, on Chambers and the
dissent relies heavily on Coolidge; Texas v. White, 1975, 423 U.S. 67, 96 S.Ct. 304, 46 L.Ed.2d 209,
in which the majority relied exclusively on Chambers; and see United States v. Watson, 1976, 423
U.S. 411, 96 S.Ct. 820, 46 L.Ed.2d 598, reversing our decision in United States v. Watson, 9 Cir.,
1974, 504 F.2d 849, in which we relied heavily upon Coolidge. Some of our decisions which are
closely in point support our application of the principles of Chambers to the search in this case.
McNeary v. Stone, 9 Cir., 1973, 482 F.2d 804, 807, closely resembles Chambers; the defendant was
arrested and his car impounded and later searched, all without a warrant. We relied entirely on
Chambers. United States v. Beasley, 9 Cir., 1973, 476 F.2d 164, 165-6, is like McNeary, supra,
relies on Chambers, and distinguishes Coolidge. In United States v. Evans, 9 Cir., 1973, 481 F.2d
990, the police, having probable cause, arrested the defendant at a house. He was not in the car,
but it was at the house. The police searched the car without a warrant. The district court
suppressed evidence found in the search and we reversed, relying heavily on Chambers. The dissent
relies on Coolidge. Those of our decisions on which McClain relies do not help him. It can be argued
that Ramon v. Cupp, 9 Cir., 1970, 423 F.2d 248, which was decided before Chambers, is not consistent
with Chambers. Moreover, in Ramon we emphasized that there were no exigent circumstances. In United
States v. Payne, 9 Cir., 1970, 429 F.2d 169, there were no exigent circumstances. Here, there were.
It was not error to deny the motion to suppress. 3. Admissibility of Hearsay to Show Predisposition
McClain argues that it was reversible error to admit the testimony as to what Dusty Wooten had said
to certain witnesses about McClain — namely, that he was a good outlet for cocaine. The court
allowed it on the theory that such hearsay is admissible to show predisposition to commit the
offense, in response to an entrapment defense. Certain decisions of the Fifth Circuit do support
this notion. United States v. Fink, 5 Cir., 1974, 502 F.2d 1, 4-5; United States v. Simon, 5 Cir.,
1973, 488 F.2d 133; United States v. Brooks, 5 Cir., 1973, 477 F.2d 453; United States v. Robinson,
5 Cir., 1971, 446 F.2d 562, 563-4; Thompson v. United States, 5 Cir., 1968, 403 F.2d 209, 210; Rocha
v. United States, 5 Cir., 1968, 401 F.2d 529, 530; Washington v. United States, 5 Cir., 1960, 275
F.2d 687, 690. These cases stand for a proposition that, to us, is astonishing. They hold that, when
a defendant sets up the defense of entrapment, the government can put a witness on the stand and
have him testify that unknown informants, of unknown reliability, have told the witness, or have
made reports to others that the witness has seen or been told about, that the defendant was dealing
in narcotics; this to prove defendant’s predisposition! If there be any reasonable rationale for
this remarkable exception to the hearsay doctrine, we have not found it in any of the foregoing
cases. We can conceive of no way in which a defendant can answer this kind of evidence. It invokes
the “faceless informer” at his worst. Yet the opinion in United States v. Fink, supra, expressly
approves the action of the trial court in refusing to let the defendant see or even ask about the
specific bases for the witness’ testimony. Most of the foregoing cases embody no rationale; they are
brief per curia citing earlier cases. United States v. Washington, supra, is the leading Fifth
Circuit case. It was decided at a time when the courts felt that it was proper for the government to
show that, when its agent set out to buy narcotics from the defendant, the agent had reasonable
grounds to believe that the defendant was engaging in criminal activities. This was the ground upon
which admission of the evidence was upheld in Washington, supra. We doubt that this notion is valid
today; it is not the state of mind of the government agent that is important; at least since the
decision in United States v. Russell, 1972, 411 U.S. 423, 93 S.Ct. 1637, 36 L.Ed.2d 366, it is the
“predisposition of the defendant” to commit the offense (id. at 427, 93 S.Ct. 1637), that is, his
state of mind, that counts. In Washington, supra, the Fifth Circuit found no error when the trial
court told the jury that it could consider the hearsay not for its truth, but only to determine
whether the government agent had good cause to believe that Washington was trafficking in narcotics.
275 F.2d at 690. The court noted that there had been no objection to this charge. As rationale,
however, Judge Wisdom said (at p. 690): Once the defense of entrapment has been raised, it is proper
to inquire into the reputation of the defendant to determine his predisposition to commit the
offense or to inquire into the reasonableness of the officer’s conduct. Sherman v. United States,
supra; Sorrells v. United States, supra; Accardi v. United States, supra; Mitchell v. United States,
10 Cir., 1944, 143 F.2d 953. It is this brief rationale that has been carried over in the later
cases. Yet not one of the authorities cited in Washington sustains the admission of hearsay
testimony of the type used in Washington. The only relevant language in Sherman v. United States,
1958, 356 U.S. 369, 78 S.Ct. 819, 2 L.Ed.2d 848, which held that Sherman had been entrapped as a
matter of law, is a passing reference to receipt in evidence by the trial court of Sherman’s past
record of two narcotic convictions, (id. at 375, 78 S.Ct. 819). The court did not rule on the
admissibility of this evidence. In Sorrells v. United States, 1932, 287 U.S. 435, 53 S.Ct. 210, 77
L.Ed. 413, which also held that there had been entrapment as a matter of law, there was no ruling at
all upon the admissibility of evidence. The only remotely relevant language in the opinion is this
(p. 451, 53 S.Ct. p. 216): The Government in such a case is in no position to object to evidence of
the activities of its representatives in relation to the accused, and if the defendant seeks
acquittal by reason of entrapment he cannot complain of an appropriate and searching inquiry into
his own conduct and predisposition as bearing upon that issue. This hardly amounts to the creation
of a brand new exception to the hearsay rule! Accardi v. United States, 5 Cir., 1958, 257 F.2d 168,
does not deal with the admissibility of evidence at all. This is equally true of Mitchell v. United
States, 10 Cir. 1944, 143 F.2d 953. Thus the authorities cited in Washington do not support the
decision, even as limited by the trial judge’s instruction. Subsequent Fifth Circuit cases slide
from Washington’s holding that hearsay is admissible to show the government agent’s good faith to
holding it admissible to show the defendant’s predisposition, without any apparent realization that
the slide is inappropriate. A government agent’s good faith belief that the defendant is a dealer,
like probable cause, can rest upon hearsay which may or may not be true. But a hearsay statement
that the defendant is a dealer can rationally be accepted as a basis for an inference that defendant
is predisposed to deal only if the hearsay statement is true. This is a classic example of the
improper use of hearsay. The impropriety of it is emphasized by the Fifth Circuit’s refusal to
permit the defendant even to find out who the person or persons who made the statement may be. In at
least two circuits, the position of the Fifth Circuit has been squarely rejected. Whiting v. United
States, 1 Cir., 1961, 296 F.2d 512; United States v. Ambrose, 6 Cir., 1973, 483 F.2d 742. These
cases recognize that predisposition can be shown by prior convictions for similar conduct (Whiting,
296 F.2d at 516), by prior similar conduct (Whiting, 296 F.2d at 516; Ambrose, 483 F.2d at 748), and
by proper proof of character (Whiting, 296 F.2d at 517; Ambrose, 483 F.2d at 748). But both reject
the kind of hearsay permitted by the Fifth Circuit. As the court said in Ambrose (483 F.2d at 752):
Agent Bilbo admitted that the atlid lists consists of names supplied by anonymous informants. He
admitted that some of this anonymous information has proved reliable and some has not. On such
ephemeral evidence, without even an attempt to satisfy the requirements ordinarily imposed upon the
introduction of reputation evidence, the Government based its argument to the jury that appellant
was predisposed to sell non-tax-paid liquor. This evidence would not even be sufficient to establish
that the agent had good cause to suspect appellant (assuming that is a relevant inquiry), let alone
competent to show that appellant possessed the requisite guilty intent.


