**gold_text:**
Cases such as the instant case, in which federal authorities allegedly interfere with rights
guaranteed by the Constitution, are, as Judge Medina characterized them in Wolff v. Selective
Service Local Board No. 16, 372 F.2d 817, 826 (2d Cir. 1967), “an unfortunate gap in the statutory
jurisdiction of the federal courts . . . .” However, the Supreme Court in Lynch v. Household Finance
Corp., 405 U.S. 538, 547, 92 S. Ct. 1113, 1119, 31 L.Ed.2d 424 (1972), dealt with this very problem
stating:

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
Moreover, plaintiffs argue that their case involves a substantial federal question, thus vesting the
court with jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. § 1331. However, as noted in reference case 405 U.S. 538 and
92 S. Ct. 1113, a broad reading of § 1343(3) jurisdiction should not render the amount-in-
controversy requirement of § 1331 superfluous. In Eisen v. Eastman, 421 F.2d 560, the court
similarly harmonized jurisdictional provisions by requiring a strict interpretation to avoid
overlapping jurisdictional grants. Here, despite the alleged constitutional violation, the monetary
claims fall short of the $10,000 threshold required under § 1331, making jurisdiction under this
statute untenable.   Furthermore, as outlined in 372 F.2d 817, local boards or administrative bodies
exceeding their authority do not extend jurisdictional reach to federal courts absent statutory
backing. This supports the conclusion that the District Court lacks jurisdiction over the matter
when exclusive avenues of federal jurisdiction, such as the Tucker Act or the APA, do not explicitly
apply.  In sum, while plaintiffs present a compelling constitutional argument, the jurisdictional
limitations imposed by the relevant statutes and case law, particularly 405 U.S. 538, 92 S. Ct.
1113, and 372 F.2d 817, render this court unable to proceed with the merits of the case.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
  The cases provided highlight the importance of jurisdictional requirements in federal courts. In
Reference Case 372 F.2d 817, the court held that local boards lacked authority to reclassify
registrants for participating in a Vietnam War protest, as jurisdiction over offenses of this
character is exclusively granted to the District Courts.  In Reference Case 405 U.S. 538, the court
addressed the conflict between 28 U.S.C. § 1343 (3) and 28 U.S.C. § 1331, concluding that the
supposed conflict does not exist. The court further emphasized that the Tucker Act, 28 U.S.C. §
1346(a)(2), only grants jurisdiction over claims against the United States for money damages not
exceeding $10,000, and does not extend to suits for equitable relief.  In Reference Case 92 S. Ct.
1113, the court ruled that the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) does not provide an independent
basis of jurisdiction. The court noted that mandamus jurisdiction lies when the act of a federal
official, although authorized by statute, is alleged to violate the Constitution, but only when
there is a clear statutory duty.  In the case at hand, plaintiffs assert that mandamus lies when the
act of a federal official, although authorized by statute, is alleged to violate the Constitution,
specifically the due process provision of the Fifth Amendment. However, the court concludes that
mandamus does not lie in the absence of a clear statutory duty. The court also notes that the
plaintiffs have not supported their allegations of jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. § 1361.  Finally,
the court addresses the issue of jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. § 1331(a), concluding that the matter
in controversy exceeds $10,000 exclusive of interests and costs, but only if plaintiffs are entitled
to survivor annuity benefits under § 8341(a)(3) (A). Thus, it appears to be a legal certainty that
plaintiffs individually cannot recover the requisite jurisdictional amount.  In conclusion, the
cases provided emphasize the importance of jurisdictional requirements in federal courts. The
court's analysis highlights the need for a clear statutory duty and the threshold amount in
controversy required for jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. § 1331(a).


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['372 F.2d 817', '405 U.S. 538', '92 S. Ct. 1113']

***short_citations_0:*** 372 F.2d 817

Boards Nos. 16 and 66, in participating in the demonstration in Michigan on October 15, 1965 could, as Judge McLean assumed, be claimed to fall under another provision of Section 12 which makes it a federal criminal offense for any person to “knowingly hinder or interfere or attempt to do so in any way, by force or violence or otherwise, with the administration of this title” and no regulation authorizes a draft board to declare a registrant a delinquent or to reclassify him for such action. As jurisdiction over offenses of this character is exclusively granted to the District Courts, we hold that the Local Boards lacked authority to decide that Wolff and Shortt were “delinquents” by reason of their violation of the terms of this portion of Section 12. Accordingly, as these two students have never been indicted or tried or convicted of this offense in a District Court, the two Local Boards, appellees, exceeded their jurisdiction by reclassifying the two students I-A. There is nothing to prevent the prosecution of registrants or others for conduct by them in violation of either federal or state criminal laws, subject to such defenses as may be alleged and established. What we hold in this case is that it is not the function of local boards in the Selective Service System to punish these registrants by reclassifying them I-A because they protested as they did over the Government’s involvement in Vietnam. II. Despite the foregoing, the Government takes the position that the

***short_citations_1:*** 405 U.S. 538

the federal court decisions that followed it, e. g., Eisen v. Eastman, 421 F. 2d 560, reflect the view that there is an apparent conflict between §§ 1343 (3) and 1331, i. e., that a broad reading of § 1343 (3) to include all rights secured by the Constitution would render § 1331, and its amount-in-controversy requirement, superfluous. These opinions sought to harmonize the two jurisdictional provisions by construing § 1343 (3) as conferring federal jurisdiction of suits brought under § 1983 only when •the right asserted is personal, not proprietary. The initial failure of this reasoning is that the supposed conflict between §§ 1343 (3) and 1331 simply does not exist. Section 1343 (3) applies only to alleged infringements of rights under “color of . . . State law,” whereas § 1331 contains no such requirement. Thus, for example, in suits against federal officials for alleged deprivations of constitutional rights, it is necessary to satisfy the amount-in-controversy requirement for federal jurisdiction. See Oestereich v. Selective Service Board, 393 U. S. 233; Bivens v. Six Unknown Named Agents, 403 U. S. 388. But the more fundamental point to be made is that any such contraction of § 1343 (3) jurisdiction is not supported by the legislative history of § 1331. The 1875 Act giving the federal courts power to hear suits arising under Art. Ill, § 2, of the Constitution was, like the Act of 1871, an expansion of national authority over matters that, before the Civil War, had been

***short_citations_2:*** 92 S. Ct. 1113

the federal court decisions that followed it, e. g., Eisen v. Eastman, 421 F. 2d 560, reflect the view that there is an apparent conflict between §§ 1343 (3) and 1331, i. e., that a broad reading of § 1343 (3) to include all rights secured by the Constitution would render § 1331, and its amount-in-controversy requirement, superfluous. These opinions sought to harmonize the two jurisdictional provisions by construing § 1343 (3) as conferring federal jurisdiction of suits brought under § 1983 only when •the right asserted is personal, not proprietary. The initial failure of this reasoning is that the supposed conflict between §§ 1343 (3) and 1331 simply does not exist. Section 1343 (3) applies only to alleged infringements of rights under “color of . . . State law,” whereas § 1331 contains no such requirement. Thus, for example, in suits against federal officials for alleged deprivations of constitutional rights, it is necessary to satisfy the amount-in-controversy requirement for federal jurisdiction. See Oestereich v. Selective Service Board, 393 U. S. 233; Bivens v. Six Unknown Named Agents, 403 U. S. 388. But the more fundamental point to be made is that any such contraction of § 1343 (3) jurisdiction is not supported by the legislative history of § 1331. The 1875 Act giving the federal courts power to hear suits arising under Art. Ill, § 2, of the Constitution was, like the Act of 1871, an expansion of national authority over matters that, before the Civil War, had been

**prev_text:**
MEMORANDUM OPINION BECHTLE, District Judge. Plaintiffs, individually and on behalf of all others
similarly situated, have brought this action seeking declaratory and injunctive relief, and
appropriate money damages, alleging that 5 U.S.C. § 8341(a)(3)(A) (Supp.1975), amending 5 U.S.C. §
8341(a)(4)(A) of the Civil Service Retirement Act, 5 U.S.C. § 8331 et seq., is unconstitutional in
that it denies them the equal protection of the laws implicitly guaranteed by the due process
provision of the Fifth Amendment. The proposed class which plaintiffs represent is composed of all
recognized illegitimate children of civilian employees of the United States Government who were not
living, or will not be living, with the employee in a regular parent-child relationship at the time
of the employee’s death. The alleged unconstitutional discrimination results in the denial of
survivor annuity benefits to members of the class, while such benefits are awarded to all legitimate
children of deceased government employees and illegitimate children who were liv ing with an
employee in a regular parent-child relationship. Plaintiffs’ natural father, William Louis Rogers,
was, at the time of his death, a civilian employee of the Defense Department in Gibbsboro, New
Jersey. Following his death, plaintiffs’ mother, Geraldine Nixon, filed a claim for survivor annuity
benefits with the Civil Service Commission on behalf of her two children who were minors at that
time. Her claim was denied on the ground that the children (plaintiffs) were not living in a regular
parent-child relationship with the deceased. Presently before the Court is defendant’s motion to
dismiss this action for lack of subject matter jurisdiction. Plaintiffs assert that jurisdiction
exists under 28 U.S.C. § 1331(a); 28 U.S.C. § 1361 (Mandamus Act); 5 U.S.C. § 701 et seq.
(Administrative Procedure Act); U.S.Const, amend. V; and 28 U.S.C. § 1346(a)(2) (Tucker Act). The
Court notes at the outset that plaintiffs’ constitutional challenge raises a substantial federal
question. However, we will be unable to reach the substantive issue raised by the case. The Court
agrees with defendant that it lacks subject matter jurisdiction over this action, for reasons more
fully set out below. Plaintiffs assert, without any authority in support thereof, that the Fifth
Amendment confers jurisdiction upon this Court. Such an assertion has never been accepted, as the
District Courts of the United States are courts of limited jurisdiction, possessing only such
jurisdiction as congressionally-enacted statutes expressly confer. United States ex rel.
Gittlemacker v. County of Philadelphia, 413 F.2d 84, 88 (3d Cir. 1969); People’s Rights Organization
v. Bethlehem Associates, 356 F.Supp. 407, 409 (E.D.Pa.), aff’d, 487 F.2d 1395 (3d Cir. 1973).
Therefore, the Fifth Amendment does not afford plaintiffs a basis for jurisdiction. Jurisdiction
also cannot be predicated upon the Tucker Act, 28 U.S.C. § 1346(a)(2). That Act gives district
courts jurisdiction over claims against the United States for money damages not exceeding $10,000.
The Supreme Court has construed the Act’s applicability as being limited to actions for money
damages and not as extending to suits for equitable relief against the United States. Richardson v.
Morris, 409 U.S. 464, 465, 93 S.Ct. 629, 34 L.Ed.2d 647 (1973). Since plaintiffs are, asking for
declaratory and injunctive relief as well as monetary damages, the Tucker Act is inapplicable in
this case. Jurisdiction may not be invoked under the Administrative Procedure Act (“APA”), 5 U.S.C.
§ 701 et seq., as the Third Circuit has held that the Act is remedial in nature and may not serve as
an independent basis of jurisdiction. Zimmerman v. United States, 422 F.2d 326, 330-331 (3d Cir.),
cert. denied, 399 U.S. 911, 90 S.Ct. 2200, 26 L.Ed.2d 565 (1970). The plaintiffs argue that, since
Zimmerman, the Supreme Court in Citizens to Preserve Overton Park, Inc. v. Volpe, 401 U.S. 402, 91
S.Ct. 814, 28 L.Ed.2d 136 (1971), held, sub silentio, that the APA provides an independent basis of
jurisdiction. Volpe involved an attempt to enjoin the Secretary of Transportation from releasing
federal funds to a state highways department for the construction of an expressway through city park
lands. The Court noted that the APA subjects agency action to judicial review, but did not hold that
the APA provided the jurisdictional vehicle by which to proceed to that review. Id. at 410, 91 S.Ct.
814. Additionally, the Third Circuit has addressed this question on numerous occasions subsequent to
Volpe, and has repeatedly held that the APA does not provide an independent basis of jurisdiction.
See Grant v. Hogan, 505 F.2d 1220, 1225 (3d Cir. 1974); Bachowski v. Brennan, 502 F.2d 79, 82 (3d
Cir. 1974), rev’d on other grounds sub nom., Dunlop v. Bachowski, 421 U.S. 560, 95 S.Ct. 1851, 44
L.Ed.2d 377 (1975); Chaudoin v. Atkinson, 494 F.2d 1323, 1328-1329 (3d Cir. 1974); Richardson v.
United States, 465 F.2d 844, 849 n. 2 (3d Cir. 1972), rev’d on other grounds, 418 U.S. 166, 95 S.Ct.
2940, 41 L.Ed.2d 678 (1974). Plaintiffs also purport to bring this action pursuant to the Mandamus
Act, 28 U.S.C. § 1361, which provides : The district courts shall have original jurisdiction of any
action in the nature of mandamus to compel an officer or employee of the United States or agency
thereof to perform a duty owed to the plaintiff. The legislative history of the mandamus statute
reveals that the statute’s construction turns upon traditional mandamus law. Davis, Administrative
Law Treatise (1970 Supplement) § 23.10. In Richardson v. United States, supra, the Third Circuit
summarized the prior law as follows: In order for mandamus to issue, a plaintiff must allege that an
officer of the Government owes him a legal duty which is a specific, plain ministerial act “devoid
of the exercise of judgment or discretion.” . . . An act is ministerial only when its performance is
positively commanded and so plainly prescribed as to be free from doubt. 465 F.2d at 849 (citations
omitted). Applying this test, we do not believe that the performance which plaintiffs seek here can
be said to be a clear, plain, ministerial act such as is envisioned in the concept of mandamus. To
the contrary, the statute clearly commands the defendant not to award survivor annuity benefits to
illegitimate children not living in a regular parent-child relationship. Plaintiffs argue, however,
that mandamus jurisdiction lies when the act of a federal official, although authorized by statute,
is alleged to violate the Constitution; specifically in this case, the due process provision of the
Fifth Amendment. See Christian v. New York State Department of Labor, Division of Employment, 414
U.S. 614, 617 n. 3, 94 S.Ct. 747, 39 L.Ed.2d 38 (1974); Burnett v. Tolson, 474 F.2d 877, 880-883
(4th Cir. 1973); Martinez v. Richardson, 472 F.2d 1121, 1125 & 1126 n. 12 (10th Cir. 1973); Mattern
v. Weinberger, 377 F.Supp. 906, 914 (E.D.Pa.1974). But see Jamieson v. Weinberger, 379 F.Supp. 28,
34 (E.D.Pa.1974). Plaintiffs cite Richardson v. United States, supra, in support of their
proposition. That case involved a taxpayer who sought a writ of mandamus to compel the publication
of the budget of the Central Intelligence Agency. The statutory basis for the Secretary of the
Treasury’s refusal to provide the information was the Central Intelligence Agency Act, 50 U.S.C. §
403a et seq. (1970). Save for the existence of the Act, the Secretary would have been required to
give an accounting of the expenditures, as required by the Accounting and Auditing Act of 1950, 31
U.S.C. §§ 66b(a), 1029. The court held that the government could not avoid an otherwise clear
statutory duty by invoking the authority of what is challenged as an unconstitutional law. 465 F.2d
at 850. However, in this case, absent § 8341(a)(3)(A), there is no statutory duty which requires the
agency to award benefits to children in plaintiffs’ position. The Court is not unmindful of the
recent decision of Judge Newcomer of this District, in the case of Rhodes v. Weinberger, 388 F.Supp.
437, 443 (E.D.Pa.1975), which held that mandamus was available as a jurisdictional basis for the
plaintiffs’ claim. In that case, certain classes of illegitimate minors were denied social security
insurance benefits. The court found the provision in question to be constitutionally invalid,
relying on Jimenez v. Weinberger, 417 U.S. 628, 94 S.Ct. 2496, 41 L.Ed.2d 363 (1974), in which the
Supreme Court had struck down a restriction identical to the one before the Rhodes court. With all
due respect to the reasoning that was provided to support the conclusion in Rhodes, this Court does
not believe that mandamus lies in the absence of a clear statutory duty. Unlike the case at hand,
the Rhodes court had the benefit of the Supreme Court’s holding in Jimenez. The Supreme Court has
not so ruled as to § 8341(a)(3)(A), and to do so would require this Court to rule on the merits in
order to decide the jurisdictional question. Finally, the Third Circuit, in Spock v. David, 469 F.2d
1047, 1050 (3d Cir. 1972) (Spock I), addressed the question of whether, absent a clear statutory
duty, mandamus will lie to compel federal officers to cease from enforcing an alleged
unconstitutional statute, or to prohibit unconstitutional actions. The plaintiffs, political
candidates and pamphleteers, who were barred by federal officials from entering the Fort Dix
Military Reservation in New Jersey, brought an action for an injunction against interference with
civil rights protected by the First Amendment. In its rejection of the Mandamus Act as a basis of
jurisdiction, the court stated: 28 U.S.C. § 1361 is one of the grants of federal jurisdiction to
which no jurisdictional amount is attached. But by no fair reading could the complaint be construed
as alleging an action in mandamus to compel David and Laird to perform a duty owed to the
plaintiffs. Under plaintiffs’ theory in the complaint defendants are acting outside their authority.
It sets forth a suit in equity for an injunction against interference with civil rights protected by
the first amendment. 469 F.2d at 1050. Similarly, plaintiffs allege that defendant acted outside his
authority, and set out a suit in equity for injunctive relief against discrimination in violation of
their due process rights under the Fifth Amendment. Accordingly, plaintiffs have not supported their
allegations of jurisdiction under § 1361. 28 U.S.C. § 1331(a) provides this Court with original
jurisdiction over civil actions arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States, if the
matter in controversy exceeds $10,000. Clearly this action arises under the Constitution of the
United States; however, there is a question as to whether plaintiffs individually meet the monetary
requirement and, if not, whether they can aggregate their claims in order to meet the $10,000
amount. The complaint does contain an allegation that the matter in controversy exceeds $10,000
exclusive of interests and costs. Normally, such an allegation made in good faith is sufficient,
unless it appears to be a legal certainty that the plaintiff cannot recover the jurisdictional
amount. See Spock v. David, supra, 469 F.2d at 1050; Davis v. Shultz, 453 F.2d 497, 501 (3d Cir.
1971). Should plaintiffs be entitled to survivor annuity benefits under § 8341(a)(3) (A), they would
each receive an amount substantially less than the $10,000 requirement. Thus, it appears to be a
legal certainty that plaintiffs individually cannot recover the requisite jurisdictional amount.
Plaintiffs assert that, in actions claiming violations of constitutional rights by federal
officials, courts have usually not required a strict showing of $10,000 in controversy, citing Spock
v. David, 502 F.2d 953 (3d Cir. 1974), cert. granted, 421 U.S. 908, 95 S.Ct. 1556, 43 L.Ed.2d 773
(1975) (Spock II). That case was concerned with the alleged infringements of the plaintiffs’ First
Amendment rights. The court had previously held in Spock 1 that such rights were capable of
valuation for purpose of establishing the requisite amount in controversy, but remanded to the
district court to determine whether the proper amount in fact existed. In Spock II, the court
affirmed the district court’s finding, noting that the cost of conveying the plaintiffs’ political
message to the 28,000 people living in Fort Dix by alternative means was well in excess of $10,000.
502 F.2d at 956. Thus, in this circuit, the requisite amount must appear to be a legal certainty
even when federal officials have allegedly violated constitutional rights.


