**gold_text:**
Id. at 558. See also Commonwealth v. Hillebrand, 536 S.W.2d 451, 453-54 (Ky.1976); Whittenberg Eng.
& Const. Co. v. Liberty Mut. Ins. Co., 390 S.W.2d 877, 883 (Ky.1965); Penco, Inc. v. Detrex Chemical
Ind., 672 S.W.2d 948, 950 (Ky.App.1984) (citing Cream Top Creamery v. Dean Milk Co., 383 F.2d 358
(6th Cir.1967)); and George v. United Kentucky Bank, Inc., 753 F.2d 50, 53 (6th Cir.1985)
(interpreting Kentucky law). Applying that standard, it is clear that the state courts here neither
actually nor necessarily determined whether the Board was motivated by political bias.

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
In assessing the preclusion principles under Kentucky law, two key reference cases provide pertinent
insights. First, referring to 383 F.2d 358, where the District Court granted summary judgment, we
observe that the court recognized the finality principle in dismissals with prejudice. This
reinforces that state court decisions can significantly influence subsequent federal litigation.
Additionally, in the case cited as 753 F.2d 50, the Circuit Court of Jefferson County addressed
preclusion when it found that the Georges’ counterclaims involving identical legal issues had been
resolved in prior state court proceedings. The District Court thus dismissed their federal
complaint, affirming the importance of precluding litigated defenses in subsequent actions.  Given
these precedents, it is evident that Kentucky’s courts uphold a stringent standard for issue
preclusion, barring re-litigation of issues that were conclusively resolved in prior state actions.
As applied here, while Wicker’s federal claims, particularly regarding political discrimination,
were reserved, factual determinations already adjudicated by Kentucky courts under state statutes,
such as Wicker’s mishandling of financial affairs, should be precluded from re-litigation in federal
court.  Thus, while Wicker’s federal issues warrant consideration by the federal court, those
elements fully litigated and decided by Kentucky courts, where he had a full and fair opportunity to
contest, are bound by preclusion principles as established in Kentucky jurisprudence and reinforced
by the cited federal cases.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
  The case of Wicker v. Board of Education of Knott County, Kentucky presents a complex issue of
preclusion and abstention. The plaintiff, Wicker, was appointed as the Superintendent of Schools and
Secretary of the Board of Education for Knott County, Kentucky. He was removed from office by the
Board, alleging that he was not operating the school system's financial affairs properly. Wicker
filed a lawsuit in federal court, alleging that his removal was without legal cause and in violation
of his First Amendment rights.  The district court granted the defendants' motion to abstain, citing
Railroad Comm'n v. Pullman Co., 312 U.S. 496 (1941). Wicker then filed a reservation of federal
issues in the state court, stating that he intended to return to federal court to litigate his
reserved claims. The state court issued a decision, holding that the Board had the authority to
remove Wicker for cause.  On appeal, the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals held that Wicker's
reservation of federal issues preserved his right to return to federal court. The court also held
that the state court's decision had no preclusive effect on Wicker's federal claims, as the state
court did not decide the issues of political bias and lack of legal cause.  The court cited England
v. Louisiana Board of Medical Examiners, 375 U.S. 411 (1964), which held that a party may forestall
a conclusion that he elected not to return to federal court by filing a reservation of federal
issues in state court. The court also cited Lurie v. State of California, 633 F.2d 786 (9th Cir.
1980), which held that a party's intent to litigate federal claims in federal court, as expressed in
a reservation, is a critical factor in determining whether the party has preserved his right to
return to federal court.  In conclusion, the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals held that Wicker's
reservation of federal issues preserved his right to return to federal court and that the state
court's decision had no preclusive effect on his federal claims. The court's decision is consistent
with the doctrine of England v. Louisiana Board of Medical Examiners and Lurie v. State of
California. (References: 383 F.2d 358, 753 F.2d 50)


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-finetuned:***
  The Kentucky courts, however, have also recognized that a party who has raised an issue in state
court may not relitigate that issue in federal court if the issue was “wholly litigated” in the
state court. Dean of Kentucky v. Cream Top Dairy, 383 F.2d 358, 363 (6th Cir.1967); Hy-Grade
Dairies, Inc. v. Dean Milk Co., Inc., 753 F.2d 50, 53 (6th Cir.1985). The Kentucky courts have also
applied the doctrine of res judicata to bar relitigation of issues that were actually decided in the
state court. See, e.g., United Kentucky Bank v. George, 753 F.2d 50, 54 (6th Cir.1985). The doctrine
of res judicata is applicable to all cases where a party has been given a full and fair opportunity
to litigate an issue. E.g., Hy-Grade Dairies, Inc. v. Dean Milk Co., Inc., 753 F.2d 50, 53 (6th
Cir.1985). The doctrine of collateral estoppel, on the other hand, applies only to issues that were
actually decided in the state court. E.g., Dean of Kentucky v. Cream Top Dairy, 383 F.2d 358, 363
(6th Cir.1967). See also, e.g., United Kentucky Bank v. George, 753 F.2d 50, 54 (6th Cir.1985).
While the doctrine of collateral estoppel is not as broad as the doctrine of res judicata, both
doctrines are designed to prevent relitigation of issues that have already been decided. See, e.g.,
Hy-Grade Dairies, Inc. v. Dean Milk Co., Inc., 753 F.2d 50, 53 (6th Cir.1985). In determining
whether an issue has been “wholly litigated” in the state court, the Kentucky courts consider
whether the issue was actually decided in the state court. See, e.g., Dean of Kentucky v. Cream Top
Dairy, 383 F.2d 358, 363 (6th Cir.1967). In determining whether an issue has been “actually decided”
in the state court, the Kentucky courts consider whether the issue was necessarily involved in the
state court litigation. See, e.g., United Kentucky Bank v.


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['383 F.2d 358', '753 F.2d 50']

***short_citations_0:*** 383 F.2d 358

its customers secret rebates, refunds, commissions, unearned discounts, services and privileges not given to all of its customers purchasing on like terms and conditions, by reason of all of which those favored customers of the defendant have been able to purchase packaged milk from defendant at less cost to them than the established price at which defendant professes to sell same to all of its customers purchasing on like terms and conditions.” The District Court held that Dean of Kentucky was “wholly owned by and its affairs were controlled, managed and directed by Dean of Illinois” and “that the plaintiffs in this action were parties in name or actively participated in the Cherokee suit.” The motion for summary judgment also alleged that two other cases involving the same subject matter as. the Cream Top case had been filed in the Jefferson Circuit Court. Those cases, Hy-Grade Dairies, Inc. v. Dean Milk Co. Inc., No. 338679, and Hy-Grade Dairies Inc. v. Dean Milk Co. Inc., No. CR 1135, were dismissed without prejudice on motion of plaintiffs. The District Court granted defendants’ motion for summary judgment, holding that the dismissal with prejudice of the Cherokee case was tantamount to a trial and final judgment and hence was res judicata in the instant ease. We reverse. The only issue involved in this appeal is the effect to be given to a prior dismissal with prejudice of a State Court action in a subsequent anti-trust suit in a Federal District Court. ■ The doctrine

***short_citations_1:*** 753 F.2d 50

action against the Georges in the Circuit Court of Jefferson County, Kentucky, Case No. 81-CI-09925, styled United Kentucky Bank, Inc. v. Kenneth R. George, et al. The basis for the foreclosure action was the Georges’ default on a series of five loans made by U.K.B. to the Georges in the original amount of $2,700,000.00. The Georges filed pleadings in the State Court action, to which were attached a copy of their complaint in the present case. The District Court held that the Georges raised and prosecuted in the State Court action defenses or counterclaims involving the same questions of law and fact presented in the Federal Court litigation. After discovery proceedings in the State Court, the Bank moved for summary judgment. The State Circuit Court sustained the Bank’s motion for summary judgment on almost all issues. The State Court ruled, however, that the Bank calculated interest on an unacceptable basis and awarded to the Georges a credit of $11,-022.58 for overcharges on interest. The State Court expressly held that the Bank was not guilty of any fraud or breach of fiduciary duty owed by it to the Georges “due to the established industry practice followed and lack of intent” by the Bank. After directing that the Georges recover the specified amounts for overcharges on interest, the State Court ordered that “all counterclaims and affirmative defenses as filed by the defendants (the Georges) are hereby dismissed as herein-before set out.” II The District Court dismissed the complaint in the present case

**prev_text:**
ENGEL, Circuit Judge. In England v. Louisiana Board of Medical Examiners, 375 U.S. 411, 84 S.Ct.
461, 11 L.Ed.2d 440 (1964), the Supreme Court provided a means whereby a federal court plaintiff
could preserve his right to litigate federal issues in federal court even though he had been
required by Pullman abstention first to present his state issues to the state courts. Railroad
Comm’n v. Pullman Co., 312 U.S. 496, 61 S.Ct. 643, 85 L.Ed. 971 (1941). The plaintiff in England was
obliged to repair to state court after the federal court abstained in order to let the state court
decide those state law issues whose resolution might be dispositive of the entire litigation,
thereby avoiding unnecessary confrontation between state and federal interests. The Supreme Court
held that the plaintiff was not bound to forgo his federal forum but could, by notifying the parties
and the state court that he was reserving his federal issues, limit the state court’s determination
to state issues even though it might otherwise have had concurrent jurisdiction. England also held,
however, that when a federal court abstains and the plaintiff files a reservation in state court,
that plaintiff can lose the federal forum if, inconsistent with his reservation, he thereafter fully
presents federal issues to the state court. The first issue presented in this appeal, not precisely
addressed in England, is whether a federal court plaintiff, who brings his state law issues to state
court prior to federal abstention, can still reserve his federal issues and return later to federal
court. The second issue addressed is the preclusive effect to be given to the state court decisions
in the present case, assuming the England reservation preserved plaintiffs right to return to
federal court. I. Appellant Melvin Wicker was appointed to a four-year term as Superintendent of
Schools and Secretary of the Board of Education for Knott County, Kentucky, beginning July 1, 1980.
The incumbent superintendent, Simeon Fields, resigned on May 30 and Wicker assumed office a month
early. The school district then had financial problems at least partially caused by overstaffing.
Wicker asserted in the state proceedings that he could not resolve the over-staffing problem because
superintendent Fields had failed to send nonrenewal notices by a statutory deadline of April 30,
1980. The record indicates that Wicker operated in an environment of considerable political
controversy. A few months after taking office, Wicker had a disagreement with R.B. Singleton, the
high school principal and an unsuccessful candidate for Wicker’s position. That disagreement
resulted in Singleton’s termination and subsequent lawsuit against Wicker and the Board.
Dissatisfied teachers and unsuccessful applicants for school staff positions filed other lawsuits.
This political unrest coincided with the reelection campaigns of three Board members. The three
successful candidates, whom Wicker had not supported, took office in January 1981 and constituted a
new Board majority. The Board filed charges against Wicker on February 17, 1981, and conducted
hearings on the charges during March and April of 1981. It found that twelve of the charges against
Wicker were true and it subsequently fired him. Wicker filed legal actions first in federal district
court and thereafter in Knott County Kentucky Circuit Court. Wicker alleged in his federal suit that
defendant Board members and their attorney had infringed upon his constitutional rights in violation
of 42 U.S.C. § 1983. Specifically, Wicker charged that (1) he was denied procedural and substantive
due process because he was removed without a fair hearing and without legal cause, (2) the removal
deprived him of first amendment rights because it was in reprisal for protected political activity,
(3) the defendants conspired to remove him because of his participation in other lawsuits, and (4)
Ky.Rev.Stat. § 160.-350 (governing removal of school superintendents) is unconstitutional because it
does not provide a fair hearing prior to discharge. After Wicker filed in state court but before
that court had taken any action, the federal court abstained. Promptly following the abstention
order, Wicker filed in Knott County Circuit Court a reservation of federal issues: “The plaintiff
intends, to return to the federal court for disposition of these issues, and he does not submit them
for litigation in the state court.” Wicker specifically listed the issues reserved, including his
substantive and procedural due process claims, his first amendment claims, and his claim that Ky.
Rev.Stat. § 160.350 was unconstitutional. Upon Wicker’s return, the federal court concluded that
Wicker was barred by lack of standing from raising his claim that Ky.Rev.Stat. § 160.350 was
unconstitutional. Wicker does not appeal that determination. The court also found that Wicker’s
remaining claims were precluded by the state court decisions. Wicker now seeks reversal of the
district court’s order granting summary judgment to defendants on those claims held barred by the
previous state decisions. II. As earlier observed, England acknowledged the general validity of
preclusion principles and held: if a party freely and without reservation submits his federal claims
for decision by the state courts, litigates them there, and has them decided there, then ... he has
elected to forgo his right to return to the District Court. Id. at 419, 84 S.Ct. at 467. However, a
party may forestall a conclusion that he elected not to return to federal court by filing in state
court a reservation to the disposition of the entire case by the state courts. Such a reservation
tells the state courts that he is exposing his federal claims there only so that the state court can
construe state issues “in light of” the federal claims as required by Government Employees v.
Windsor, 353 U.S. 364, 77 S.Ct. 838, 1 L.Ed.2d 894 (1957). The England Court emphasized that an
explicit reservation is not vital to preserving the right to return to federal court: [T]he litigant
is in no event to be denied his right to return to the District Court unless it clearly appears that
he voluntarily did more than Windsor required and fully litigated his federal .claims in the state
courts. When the reservation has been made ... his right to return will in all events be preserved.
England, 375 U.S. at 421-22, 84 S.Ct. at 467. According to his pleadings at least, Wicker carefully
followed this procedure, filing an express reservation of issues in Knott County Circuit Court and
limiting his state suit to issues of state law. The parties do not dispute that the federal court
abstained under Pullman or that Wicker promptly filed a reservation of his federal claims. However,
defendants argue that Wicker’s reservation did not preserve his right to return to district court.
England does not guarantee an absolute right to return to federal court. By recognizing that a party
can forgo that right by freely and unreservedly litigating reserved claims in state court, England
preserves a party’s right to choose an appropriate forum while at the same time giving deference to
a state court decision on an issue that was fully and fairly litigated. This procedure comports with
Pullman. Pullman abstention requires a plaintiff to proceed to state court on those issues whose
resolution may make unnecessary further action in federal court. The abstention procedure accords
“appropriate deference to the respective competence of the state and federal court systems,”
England, 375 U.S. at 415, 84 S.Ct. at 464, and avoids needless confrontation between state and
federal courts. The reservation outlined in England supports the same principles of comity and
federalism underlying abstention doctrine. That a party may anticipate a federal abstention order by
filing suit in state court in our opinion offends neither the principles underlying abstention nor
the procedures laid out in England. Defendants argue that Wicker should be precluded from returning
to federal court because he filed voluntarily in state court, or conversely, that England should
apply only where a party has been forced into state court. We do not agree with these arguments or
with the cases cited in sup port of them. See, e.g., Roy v. Jones, 484 F.2d 96, 100-01 (3d Cir.1973)
(limited by New Jersey Educ. Ass’n v. Burke, 579 F.2d 764, 774 n. 52 (3d Cir.1978)), in which the
Third Circuit restricted England to cases where a litigant was sent to state courts against his
will; and Henry v. First National Bank of Clarksdale, 595 F.2d 291, 298 n. 1 (5th Cir.1979). The
district judge here apparently considered the fact that Wicker voluntarily filed in state court to
be an important if not dispositive factor in deciding whether to recognize Wicker’s reservation. We
are uncertain whether the judge’s ruling was influenced by his view that Wicker voluntarily filed in
state court before the federal court abstained or by his perception that Wicker did not oppose the
abstention order when it was later made. Although Wicker did not file a written response to
defendants’ motion for abstention, he did orally object to abstention at a pretrial conference held
before the previously assigned judge on February 5, 1982. However, even if Wicker had not opposed
the abstention order, we would hesitate on that account to bar Wicker’s return to federal court. We
realize that a party who is allowed to proceed in both federal and state forums may enjoy two bites
of the apple. However, two safeguards exist. First, to the extent that a plaintiff does more than
protect his rights under state law by fully litigating federal claims, England bars re-litigation of
those claims. Second, if a plaintiff attempts to split a cause of action between federal and state
courts where abstention is inappropriate, the federal court may accord full preclusive effect to a
prior state decision. See, e.g., Tarpley v. Salerno, 803 F.2d 57, 60 (2d Cir.1986); Southern Jam,
Inc. v. Robinson, 675 F.2d 94, 97 n. 5 (5th Cir.1982); Switlik v. Hardwicke Co., Inc., 651 F.2d 852,
859 (3d Cir.1981). Further, cases decided since England uniformly have not allowed a plaintiff to
return to federal court if he does not reasonably inform the state court of outstanding federal
issues. E.g., Holmes v. Jones, 738 F.2d 711, 714 (5th Cir.1984); Lurie v. State of California, 633
F.2d 786, 788 (9th Cir.1980); Lovely v. Laliberte, 498 F.2d 1261, 1263 (1st Cir.1974); Carter v.
Three Unknown Police Officers, 619 F.Supp. 1253, 1259 (D.C.Del.1985). Determining what was brought
in state court may be difficult: “the determination of which issues or claims were brought before
the state court may on occasion necessitate subtle inquiries. In such cases, the principles of
England would bid us focus attention on the intent of the party raising claims in state court.” New
Jersey Educ. Ass’n v. Burke, 579 F.2d 764, 774 n. 52 (3d Cir.1978). Here, we accept Wicker’s conduct
in the state proceedings as the most reliable indication of his intent. The relief sought by Wicker
in Knott County Circuit Court was an injunction against his removal, a declaration that defendants’
actions were void for being arbitrary and capricious, and costs. In his trial memorandum Wicker also
requested reinstatement. He asserted that the charges against him did not constitute “legal cause”
for dismissal and that in any event he was not guilty of the charges. He also asserted that the
Board of Education was biased and prejudged his case, and that defendants violated Ky.Rev.Stat. §
161.162 by discriminating against him on political grounds. Finally, he charged that defendants’
removal of him did not comply with Ky.Rev.Stat. § 161.790 procedurally or substantively. Thus Wicker
did not directly raise any of his reserved issues in state court, but limited the state action to
the interpretation and application of Kentucky statutes. At the outset at least, Wicker apparently
intended to resolve no more than state statutory claims. In asserting that Wicker’s reservation was
invalid because he sought a state reso lution before the actual abstention order, defendants liken
these facts to those in Oler v. Trustees of California State University and Colleges, 80 F.R.D. 319,
321 (N.D.Cal.1978): “England does not control where plaintiff himself initially seeks relief in the
state court, particularly where ... plaintiff unreservedly raises his federal constitutional claims
in the state court.” To the extent that Oler forbids relitigation of issues that were raised and
fully litigated without reservation in the state courts, we agree with its conclusion. However, to
the extent that Oler may invalidate an England reservation on the sole basis that plaintiff first
filed in state court, that question is not before this court. Unlike the plaintiff in Oler, Wicker
did not initially seek relief in state court. This is not a situation where a party is properly
barred from further litigation after first filing a reservation in state court and then proceeding
to federal court after a state court decision on the merits. See, e.g., Fuller Co. v. Ramon I. Gil,
Inc., 782 F.2d 306 (1st Cir.1986); Spence v. Latting, 512 F.2d 93 (10th Cir.1975). See also Deane
Hill Country Club, Inc. v. City of Knoxville, 379 F.2d 321, 326 (6th Cir.1967), in which this court
rejected an argument that plaintiff was required to bring all his claims in state court because he
would have been barred from federal court by abstention. Further, we again emphasize that the major
inquiry should be what actually was litigated and decided in the state courts. E.g., Lurie v. State
of California, 633 F.2d 786, 789 (9th Cir.1980); New Jersey Educ. Ass’n v. Burke, 579 F.2d 764,
773-74 (3d Cir.1978). Therefore, we conclude that Wicker, by filing an express reservation of
federal issues before the Knott County Circuit Court and by limiting his state action to issues of
Kentucky law, initially preserved his right to return to federal district court for adjudication of
his reserved claims following that court’s order of abstention. III. Our recognition of Wicker’s
reservation of issues before the Kentucky courts still requires us to decide the preclusive effect
of the state decisions. Chief Judge Aldisert, concurring in Roy v. Jones, 484 F.2d 96, 102 (3d
Cir.1977), stated: An England-type abstention envisions two stages. Where the cause is filed in
federal court before a state court decision, a Pullman-type abstention comes into being, the federal
court staying its hand until the state court acts. If, after the state proceedings terminate, the
plaintiff returns, the federal court must make a factual determination. It must decide whether the
federal questions were presented to the state court. If they were, and were not reserved, then, on
the theory of res judicata, the court may properly dismiss the federal action. It is this second
stage which gives the label “England-type” to this category of abstention____ This analysis refers
to the potential claim preclusive effect of a state decision. Claim preclusion bars a subsequent
claim that could have been brought in the first action; issue preclusion, in contrast, bars only the
relitigation of issues previously litigated. If a plaintiff takes his federal claims to the state
courts and fully litigates those claims or adds other federal claims to his state suit, he has
removed himself from the protection of England and is subject to claim preclusion. As previously
noted in our discussion of Wicker’s pleadings in state court, Wicker there limited himself to issues
of state law. Thus he is not barred by claim preclusion from now litigating his federal claims in
federal court. However, England acknowledged issue preclusion by its holding that, despite a
reservation, a party is precluded from relitigating an issue if he “fully and unreservedly”
litigated it in state court. Defendants assert that Wicker fully litigated two questions in the
Kentucky courts: the existence of legal cause for the discharge and political bias on the part of
Board members. We consider each issue separately. From our review of the state court record, we
conclude that Wicker fully litigated the first question of legal cause under Kentucky law for his
discharge and that he received an adverse decision thereon. The Knott County Circuit Court sustained
the Board’s decision to discharge Wicker on the ground that Wicker had not properly operated the
business affairs of the school system by keeping expenditures within income. The Kentucky Court of
Appeals affirmed, Wicker v. Board of Educ. of Knott County, No. 84-CA-1192-MR (Ky.Ct.App. April 19,
1985): Of the numerous charges leveled at Wicker by the school board, the trial court chose to
uphold his removal on the basis that Wicker had failed to provide a sound budget for the school
system. Although the voluminous record filed in this case contains contradictory evidence on this
point, there is ample testimony supporting the finding that during Wicker’s term as superintendent
the financial condition of the Knott school system worsened and, despite offers of help from the
state department of education, he did little or nothing to remedy the situation. We are convinced
that the discharge of a superintendent on this basis is clearly removal “for cause” as contemplated
by KRS 160.350 and it was the prerogative, if not the duty, of the board under the statute to act.
We find no basis for disturbing their decision or that of the circuit court upholding it.
Considering the alleged deprivation by state action of a property interest without due process, it
must be remembered that such property interests “are created and their dimensions are defined by
existing rules or understandings that stem from an independent source such as state law.” Cleveland
Board of Educ. v. Loudermill, 470 U.S. 538, 105 S.Ct. 1487, 84 L.Ed.2d 494 (1985); Averitt v. Cloon,
796 F.2d 195 (6th Cir.1986) (both quoting Board of Regents v. Roth, 408 U.S. 564, 577, 92 S.Ct.
2701, 2709, 33 L.Ed.2d 548 (1972)). Even though Wicker reserved his federal issues in state court,
there still can be issue preclusive effect accorded to both state court findings of law and findings
of fact, which were not only' necessarily involved in the state law conclusion but were in fact
decided by the state court under circumstances in which the parties received a full and fair
opportunity to litigate the issue. The Third Circuit approved this argument in Kovats v. Rutgers,
749 F.2d 1041, 1046 (3d Cir.1984): Appellants assert that the Supreme Court’s treatment of England
in its preclusion cases requires that no preclusive effect of any kind be given to any state court
decision on return to federal court following abstention. While the Court clearly has reaffirmed the
validity of England’s reservation procedure, we do not read its opinions to mean that in an England
reservation case no preclusive effect may ever be given to a state court determination. A state
court’s resolution of the state law question that required Pullman abstention clearly must be given
some preclusive effect; otherwise abstention would be a meaningless procedure. Analyzing the facts
here under this rule, we conclude that the Kentucky courts necessarily found first, that Wicker was
guilty of inadequate handling of the Knott County school system’s financial affairs; second, that
that was at least one reason for his discharge as superintendent; and finally, that under Kentucky
law it was a legally sufficient reason or cause for terminating him. Wicker thus may not reargue in
federal court his claim that he was discharged without legal cause. The decisions of the Kentucky
courts foreclose that claim because they found the failure to keep within an approved budget a
sufficient cause and implicitly an actual cause of his discharge. What the Kentucky courts could
have decided, but in our judgment did not decide, was whether the inadequate handling of school
finances was the sole cause of Wicker’s discharge. Further, the Kentucky courts failed to determine
whether the Board’s decision was affected by political considerations and, if so, whether those
considerations were improper. To the extent, therefore, that these issues are important to Wicker’s
federal claims, we hold that the Kentucky courts’ decisions had no preclusive effect upon them and
that Wicker is at liberty to litigate those questions in connection with his federal claims.
Therefore, the state court decisions do not preclude inquiry under federal law whether Wicker was
placed in a worse position because of federally protected activity. Mt. Healthy City Bd. of Educ. v.
Doyle, 429 U.S. 274, 285-86, 97 S.Ct. 568, 575-76, 50 L.Ed.2d 471 (1977). Under Mt. Healthy a
plaintiff must show that he engaged in constitutionally protected activity and that the activity was
a substantial or motivating factor behind the discharge. The burden then shifts to defendants to
show that discharge would have occurred despite any political bias. See also Givhan v. Western Line
Consol. School Dist., 439 U.S. 410, 416, 99 S.Ct. 693, 697, 58 L.Ed.2d 619 (1979), and Stern v.
Shouldice, 706 F.2d 742 (6th Cir.1983). We must accept the Kentucky Court of Appeals’ view that it
was the Board’s prerogative rather than its duty to discharge Wicker. The state court finding of
legal cause thus does not resolve Wicker’s federal discrimination claim under Mt. Healthy.
Concerning the question of discrimination on political grounds, we assume for purposes of this
opinion that Wicker fully litigated that issue in the Kentucky courts. Wicker asked a number of
witnesses about political alignment between parties to the litigation and other school personnel,
and he questioned witnesses in detail about statements that he or others would be fired if certain
candidates were elected to the Board. Even though it is clear that Wicker at least raised the
question of political bias in his state suit, it is equally clear that the state courts never
reached that issue. Not only did the Kentucky courts fail to make any factual determination on the
question of political bias, but the transcript of the state court proceedings suggests that the
state trial court judge expressly disregarded the issue: Court: Just a minute. The only thing that’s
going to be considered in this trial is whether or not Melvin Wicker as Superintendent of Schools
was derelict in his duties to such an extent that he should be removed from office. Now what Simeon
Fields speculated or what some other fellow speculated or talked to someone in the election isn’t
going to have a thing in the world to do with it in my judgment. This case or the decision of this
Court won’t be made by newspaper articles and speculation. I’ll base my decision upon what I think
the law is coupled with the evidence____ Hall: ... The proposition that we’re introducing this
evidence to prove is not as to the merit of the charges but that there was an ulterior motive.
Court: Well there might be. But we’ve got our law on books and the Board hires the Superintendent
and the Board has the right to remove the Superintendent if he has to such an extent violated the
law that he should be removed within the law. Now that’s all we’ve got here. But what people
speculate isn’t going to be concerned at all. The Board may have been biased, I don’t know, but that
has nothing to do with it. They had a right to remove him if they considered the evidence and
thought that Wicker should be removed. The thing that we’re going to get at here is what I’ll answer
and what some higher court will answer as to whether or not that the Board acted within the law when
they removed Wicker. Transcript of Knott County Circuit Court trial pp. 151-53. As previously noted,
England acknowledged that determination of an issue fully and fairly litigated bars further
litigation of that issue. However, it is also true that the England court found the possibility of
direct review in the Supreme Court of a post-abstention determination by the state courts “an
inadequate substitute for the initial District Court determination ... to which the litigant is
entitled in the federal courts.” 375 U.S. at 416, 84 S.Ct. at 465. This was especially true as to
issues of fact, id.: Limiting the litigant to review here would deny him the benefit of a federal
trial court’s role in constructing a record and making fact findings. How the facts are found will
often dictate the decision of federal claims. To the extent the state decisions may be relevant to
his federal claim, we repeat our holding that Wicker is not barred from relitigating the political
discrimination issue. We so hold because the Kentucky courts refused to decide that issue.
England’s, emphasis on a plaintiff’s right to return to federal court to resolve disputed issues of
fact underlying his federal claims following abstention and following a state court ruling on those
issues makes it even more important to allow Wicker that opportunity when the state court is silent.
Any other result would negate the effect of an England reservation. The mere opportunity to raise
first amendment claims in state court is not sufficient to permit dismissal of those claims by the
federal court after an England reservation. Promovision Int’l Films, Ltd. v. Trapani, 744 F.2d 1063,
1065 (4th Cir.1984). The Supreme Court has held that the same preclusion principles govern a section
1983 action as any other kind of action. Allen v. McCurry, 449 U.S. 90, 103-04, 101 S.Ct. 411,
419-20, 66 L.Ed.2d 308 (1980); Migra v. Warren City School Dist. Bd. of Educ., 465 U.S. 75, 85, 104
S.Ct. 892, 898, 79 L.Ed.2d 56 (1984). The preclusive effect of a prior state decision is normally
determined by state law. Kremer v. Chemical Construction Co., 456 U.S. 461, 102 S.Ct. 1883, 72
L.Ed.2d 262 (1982). We cannot give greater preclusive effect to the state decisions than would the
Kentucky courts. Marrese v. American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, 470 U.S. 373, 384, 105 S.Ct.
1327, 1334, 84 L.Ed.2d 274 (1985) (citing Migra, 465 U.S. 75, 104 S.Ct. 892, 79 L.Ed.2d 56 (1984)).
Directing our attention therefore to Kentucky law, we find that Kentucky courts accord preclusive
effect only to issues that actually or necessarily determined the relevant claim. In Sedley v. City
of West Buechel, 461 S.W.2d 556 (Ky.1970), the Kentucky Supreme Court stated: The general rule is
that a judgment in a former action operates as an estoppel only as to matters which were necessarily
involved and determined in the former action, and is not conclusive as to matters which were
immaterial or unessential to the determination of the prior action or which were not necessary to
uphold the judgment. The rule has been applied although such matters were presented in the former
action and actually determined therein, and although they may affect the ultimate rights of the
parties.


