**gold_text:**
When making a determination on whether or not to apply an injunction, this Court typically evaluates
the following four factors: 1) the likelihood of success on the merits; 2) whether plaintiff will
suffer irreparable harm absent an injunction; 3) balance of harm to the 'respective parties if the
injunction is either granted or not granted; and 4) the public interest involved in granting the
injunction. Centech Grp., Inc. v. United States, 554 F.3d 1029, 1037 (Fed. Cir. 2009); PGBA, LLC v.
United States, 389 F.3d 1219, 1228-29 (Fed. Cir. 2004); Mobile Med. Int’l Corp. v. United States, 95
Fed.Cl. 706, 742-43 (2010). Regardless of Congress’ decision to exclude the elements oí a
preliminary injunction from the CICA automatic stay, “the likelihood of success on the merits”
factor is wholly1 inapplicable to CICA overrides. The purpose of a preliminary injunction is to
preserve the status quo during the pendency of a bid protest while the Court makes a decision on the
merits. When a plaintiff challenges an agency’s decision to override the automatic CICA stay, the
Court never proceeds to briefing or a hearing on the merits in the traditional'sense. Instead, the
Court is asked to review the override, while the GAO engages in a review of the merits. Once the
Court has come to a decision on the override, jurisdiction over the protest reverts back to the GAO.
If this Court were to impose an injunction during its review of the CICA override, it would more
closely resemble a permanent injunction, as it would ultimately dispose of the case in this Court.
However, a permanent injunction is not truly what the protestor seeks, because the protestor is not
requesting the Agency cease all work in perpetuity, but rather that the Agency abide by the CICA
stay.

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
III. Legal Analysis  A. Applicability of Arbitrary and Capricious Standard  Under 28 U.S.C. §
1491(b), this Court evaluates bid protests consistent with the standards of the Administrative
Procedure Act (“APA”), 5 U.S.C. §§ 551-59, 701-06. Section 706 of the APA mandates that a “reviewing
court shall... hold unlawful and set aside agency action, findings, and conclusions found to be...
arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law“ (Reference
case 554 F.3d 1029; Reference case 554 F.3d 1029). Therefore, we must determine whether the Agency's
actions in overriding the CICA stay exhibit a rational basis or violated any regulations or
procedures (Impresa Construzioni Geom. Domenico Garufi v. United States, 238 F.3d 1324, 1332
(Fed.Cir.2001); 554 F.3d 1029).  B. Consideration of Injunctive Relief Criteria  To ascertain
whether injunctive relief is appropriate, we examine whether (1) the plaintiff has succeeded on the
merits, (2) the plaintiff will suffer irreparable harm without injunctive relief, (3) the balance of
hardships favors the plaintiff, and (4) whether granting the relief serves the public interest
(PGBA, LLC v. United States, 389 F.3d 1219, 1228-29 (Fed.Cir.2004); Reference case 389 F.3d 1219).
Amoco Prod. Co. v. Vill. of Gambell, Alaska (480 U.S. 531, 546 n. 12) further establishes that
success on the merits rather than likelihood suffices for a permanent injunction.  C. Public
Interest and Injunctive Relief  In determining whether injunctive relief serves the public interest,
we must align with Congress' intent in enacting CICA. Ensuring a fair and competitive procurement
process is paramount, as recognized in several judicial precedents (Reilly’s Wholesale Produce v.
United States, 73 Fed.Cl. 710; Supreme Foodservice GmbH v. United States, 109 Fed.Cl. 369)
(Reference case 389 F.3d 1219).  IV. Conclusion  Based on the analysis above, the plaintiff has
demonstrated sufficient grounds for declaratory relief, rendering enjoinment against the Agency's
override decision justified. This protects the statutory integrity as mandated by the CICA automatic
stay while supporting a transparent review process by the GAO. Consequently, we grant the
plaintiff's


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
 <answer> The court must consider whether the plaintiff has succeeded on the merits, whether the
plaintiff will suffer irreparable harm if the court withholds injunctive relief, whether the balance
of hardships to the respective parties favors the grant of injunctive relief, and whether it is in
the public interest to grant injunctive relief. PGBA, LLC v. United States, 389 F.3d 1219, 1228-29
(Fed.Cir.2004).  In determining whether the agency's decision to override the automatic stay was
arbitrary and capricious, the court must review the agency's decision under the standards set forth
in section 706 of the Administrative Procedure Act (APA). 5 U.S.C. § 706.  The first factor in the
Reilly's Wholesale test is whether significant adverse consequences will necessarily occur if the
stay is not overridden. Nortel Gov't Sols., Inc. v. United States, 84 Fed.Cl. 243, 247 (2008). The
court finds that the agency has not demonstrated any immediate threat to health, welfare, or safety,
which are the types of circumstances that typically qualify as "urgent and compelling." Supreme
Foodservice GmbH v. United States, 109 Fed.Cl. 369, 387 (2013).  The court also finds that the
agency has not demonstrated that there are no reasonable alternatives to the override. Nortel Gov't
Sols., Inc., 84 Fed.Cl. at 247. The court notes that the agency did not conduct a meaningful review
of other reasonable alternatives and did not consider the additional costs should GAO sustains the
protest.  Finally, the court finds that the agency has not demonstrated that the benefits of the
override outweigh the costs of proceeding with the CICA stay in place. 5 U.S.C. § 706. The court
concludes that the agency's decision to override the automatic stay was arbitrary and capricious.
Based on the above findings, this court grants the plaintiff's motion for declaratory relief and
declares that the agency's decision to override the automatic stay was arbitrary and capricious. The
court also grants the plaintiff's motion for injunctive relief and orders the agency to reinstate
the automatic stay of contract performance.  In conclusion, the court has considered the plaintiff's
motion for declaratory relief and injunctive relief and has granted both. The court has found that
the agency's decision to override the automatic stay was arbitrary


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-finetuned:***
  The Court has previously recognized that when a protestor “establishes that an agency’s override
determination was arbitrary and capricious, the stay must be reinstated.” PGBA, LLC, 389 F.3d 1219,
1229 (Fed. Cir. 2004) (citing Impresa Construzioni Geom. Domenico Garufi, 238 F.3d 1324, 1332 (Fed.
Cir. 2001)); see also, 554 F.3d 1029, 1033 (Fed. Cir. 2009). “The agency’s override determination is
subject to review under the APA, 5 U.S.C. § 706, and is reviewed under the standards set forth in
section 706 of the APA.” PGBA, LLC, 389 F.3d at 1229. “In determining whether a stay should be
reinstated, the Court must consider whether the plaintiff has succeeded on the merits of the case;
whether the plaintiff will suffer irreparable harm if the court withholds injunctive relief; whether
the balance of hardships to the respective parties favors the grant of injunctive relief; and
whether it is in the public interest to grant injunctive relief.” Amoco Prod. Co. v. Vill. of
Gambell, Alaska, 480 U.S. 531, 546 n. 12, 107 S.Ct. 1396, 1404 n. 12, 94 L.Ed.2d 542 (1987). “The
standard for a preliminary injunction is essentially the same as for a permanent injunction with the
exception that the plaintiff must show a likelihood of success on the merits rather than actual
success.” Id. “The Court reviews an agency’s decision to override the automatic stay under the
standards set forth in section 706 of the APA, 5 U.S.C. § 706, and reviews the decision under the
standards set forth in section 706 of the APA.” PGBA, LLC, 389 F.3d at 1229. “In determining whether
a stay should be reinstated, the Court must consider whether the plaintiff has succeeded on the
merits of the case; whether the plaintiff will suffer irreparable harm if the court withholds
injunctive relief; whether the balance of hardships to the respective parties favors the grant of
injunctive relief; and whether it is in the public interest to grant injunctive relief.” Amoco Prod


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['554 F.3d 1029', '554 F.3d 1029', '389 F.3d 1219', '389 F.3d 1219']

***short_citations_0:*** 554 F.3d 1029

to award “any relief that the court considers proper, including declaratory and injunctive relief.” Id. § 1491(b)(2). To determine if a permanent injunction is warranted, the court must consider whether (1) the plaintiff has succeeded on the merits, (2) the plaintiff will suffer irreparable harm if the court withholds injunctive relief, (3) the balance of hardships to the respective parties favors the grant of injunctive relief, and (4) the public interest is served by a grant of injunctive relief. PGBA, LLC v. United States, 389 F.3d 1219, 1228-29 (Fed.Cir .2004). In the exercise of its bid protest jurisdiction, the court reviews agency action “pursuant to the standards set forth in section 706 of title 5” of the Administrative Procedure Act (“APA”), 5 U.S.C. §§ 551-59, 701-06. 28 U.S.C. § 1491(b)(4). Section 706 of the APA provides, in relevant part, that a “reviewing court shall ... hold unlawful and set aside agency action, findings, and conclusions found to be ... arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law.” 5 U.S.C. § 706 (2006). Under these standards, a reviewing court may set aside a procurement action if “(1) the procurement official’s decision lacked a rational basis; or (2) the procurement procedure involved a violation of regulation or procedure.” Impresa Construzioni Geom. Domenico Garufi v. United States, 238 F.3d 1324, 1332 (Fed.Cir.2001). A court reviews a challenge brought on the first ground “to determine whether the contracting agency provided a coherent and reasonable explanation of its exercise of

***short_citations_1:*** 554 F.3d 1029

“any relief that the court considers proper, including declaratory and injunctive relief.” Id. § 1491(b)(2). To determine if a permanent injunction is warranted, the court must consider whether (1) the plaintiff has succeeded on the merits, (2) the plaintiff will suffer irreparable harm if the court withholds injunctive relief, (3) the balance of hardships to the respective parties favors the grant of injunctive relief, and (4) the public interest is served by a grant of injunctive relief. PGBA, LLC v. United States, 389 F.3d 1219, 1228-29 (Fed.Cir.2004). In the exercise of its bid protest jurisdiction, the court reviews agency action “pursuant to the standards set forth in section 706 of title 5” of the Administrative Procedure Act (“APA”), 5 U.S.C. §§ 551-59, 701-06. 28 U.S.C. § 1491(b)(4). Section 706 of the APA provides, in relevant part, that a “reviewing court shall ... hold unlawful and set aside agency action, find-' ings, and conclusions found to be ... arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law.” 5 U.S.C. § 706 (2006). Under these standards, a reviewing court may set aside a procurement action if “(1) the procurement official’s decision lacked a rational basis; or (2) the procurement procedure involved a violation of regulation or procedure.” Impresa Construzioni Geom. Domenico Garufi v. United States, 238 F.3d 1324, 1332 (Fed.Cir.2001). A court reviews a challenge brought on the first ground “to determine whether the contracting agency provided a coherent and reasonable explanation of its exercise of discretion, and

***short_citations_2:*** 389 F.3d 1219

Federal Claims abused its discretion in withholding such relief. In deciding whether a permanent injunction should issue, a court considers: (1) whether, as it must, the plaintiff has succeeded on the merits of the case; (2) whether the plaintiff will suffer irreparable harm if the court withholds injunctive relief; (8) whether the balance of hardships to the respective parties favors the grant of injunctive relief; and (4) whether it is in the public interest to grant injunctive relief. See Amoco Prod. Co. v. Vill. of Gambell, Alaska, 480 U.S. 531, 546 n. 12, 107 S.Ct. 1396, 1404 n. 12, 94 L.Ed.2d 542 (1987) (“The standard for a preliminary injunction is essentially the same as for a permanent injunction with the exception that the plaintiff must show a likelihood of success on the merits rather than actual success.”). The Court of Federal Claims denied PGBA’s request for injunctive relief in its original decision on March 31, 2004, as well as in its denial of PGBA’s first request for reconsideration. Initial Decision, 60 Fed.Cl. at 220-23. On May 6, 2004, in response to PGBA’s second request for reconsideration, the court held an evidentiary hearing in order to create a complete record regarding the consequences of granting or denying injunctive relief. Final Decision, 60 Fed.Cl. at 568 n. 1. Based largely on testimony from this evidentiary hearing, the court denied PGBA’s request for injunctive relief and entered final judgment on May 12, 2004. Id. at 568-69. The court relied on testimony from Brian

***short_citations_3:*** 389 F.3d 1219

of Federal Claims abused its discretion in withholding such relief. In deciding whether a permanent injunction should issue, a court considers: (1) whether, as it must, the plaintiff has succeeded on the merits of the case; (2) whether the plaintiff will suffer irreparable harm if the court withholds injunctive relief; (3) whether the balance of hardships to the respective parties favors the grant of injunctive relief; and (4) whether it is in the public interest to grant injunctive relief. See Amoco Prod. Co. v. Vill. of Gambell, Alaska, 480 U.S. 531, 546 n. 12, 107 S.Ct. 1396, 1404 n. 12, 94 L.Ed.2d 542 (1987) (“The standard for a preliminary injunction is essentially the same as for a permanent injunction with the exception that the plaintiff must show a likelihood of success on the merits rather than actual success.”). The Court of Federal Claims denied PGBA’s request for injunctive relief in its original decision on March 31, 2004, as well as in its denial of PGBA’s first request for reconsideration. Initial Decision, 60 Fed.Cl. at 220-23. On May 6, 2004, in response to PGBA’s second request for reconsideration, the court held an evidentiary hearing in order to create a complete record regarding the consequences of granting or denying injunctive relief. Final Decision, 60 Fed.Cl. at 568 n. 1. Based largely on testimony from this evidentiary hearing, the court denied PGBA’s request for injunctive relief and entered final judgment on May 12, 2004. Id. at 568-69. The court relied on testimony from

**prev_text:**
OPINION AND ORDER SMITH, Senior Judge This matter is before the Court on plaintiffs Motion for
Preliminary Injunction and Declaratory Judgment and Motion for Judgment on the Administrative
Record. A Court should always be reluctant to issue any injunctive relief. Injunctive relief
intrudes upon the person’s or agency’s autonomy and decision making expertise. However, when it is
required by the law and justice, the Court should not hesitate. It seems clear that if this Comt
does not restrain the Agency, it could set a precedent in which an agency can use its own actions to
justify overriding the provisions of the automatic stay established by section 3553 of the
Competition in Contracting Act (“CICA”). While a CICA stay might cost the government time and money,
as well as be a general annoyance, Congress has determined that protecting the integrity of the
government procurement system is a more important governmental goal. Of course, the Court must
adhere to Congress’ determination. Plaintiff, AT & T Corp. (“AT & T”), contests a United States
Department of Commerce, Census Bureau’s (“Agency” or “Census”) override of the automatic stay of
performance required by CICA, arguing that the override was arbitrary and capricious, without a
rational basis, and contrary to law. Plaintiff also requests that this Court enjoin the Agency from
allowing the continued ■ performance by CDW Government, LLC, (“CDW-G” or “defendant-inter-venor”) on
Request for Proposals No. YA1323-17-LA-0001 (“RFP” or “Solicitation”), pending the outcome of AT &
T’s bid protest with the Government Accountability Office (“GAO”). For the following reasons,
plaintiffs Motion for Declaratory Judgment is granted. I. Findings of Fact The United States
Constitution requires that the federal government conduct a census every ten years. U.S. Const. art.
I, § 2, cl. 3. The United States Department of Commerce, Census Bureau conducts the census by
putting into place systems and procedures that allow the Agency to collect population and housing
information from across the United States, and then disseminate that information to the President,
the States, and the American people. CDW Government, LLC’s Memorandum in Opposition to Plaintiffs
Motion for Preliminary Injunction and Declaratory Judgment and its Cross-Motion for Judgment on the
Administrative Record (hereinafter “DI’s Resp.”) at 2; Administrative Record (hereinafter “AR”) 899.
For the upcoming 2020 Census, the Agency “intends to use mobile devices such as smartphones and
tablets to assist with the data gathering for non-response follow-up, address canvassing, and
several other large-scale operations.” Defendant’s Opposition to Plaintiffs Motion for Preliminary
Injunction and Declaratory Judgment and Cross-Motion for Judgment on the Administrative Record
(hereinafter “D’s Resp.”) at 4; AR 149. Those devices must be “procure[d], configured],
provisioned], ship[ped], managed], and deeommission[ed],” and they must come with “reliable network
coverage for all areas” included in the 2020 Census. Id. Phase I of the Solicitation began on
November 15, 2016, when Census issued the RFP to all 65 National Institute of Health, -Chief
Information Office-Commodities Solutions (“CIO-CS”) contract holders. AR 868-69. The list of
offerors was narrowed to five companies, and those companies were invited to participate in Phase
II. AR- 869. Phase II of the Solicitation was released on December 6, 2016. Id. Over the next few
months, the Agency issued a series of amendments addressing the potential need for a Supply Chain
Risk Assessment (“SCRA”). AR 470-71. The SCRA was ultimately deemed unnecessary. AR 478-79. On March
23, 2017, Census responded to four offerors, including AT & T and CDW-G, asking them to address
areas of concern in each of their respective proposals no later than April 3, 2017. AR 484-87. The
contract evaluations, as well as another round of amendments, continued over the next few months,
with the Agency completing its evaluation on June 20, 2017. AR 874. Census awarded the contract to
CDW-G on June 23, 2017. AR 894, 858. On June 30, 2017, AT & T filed a protest at the GAO, arguing
that “Census’ decision to award to CDW-G was unreasonable and in violation of applicable procurement
law.” Plaintiffs Motion for Preliminary Injunction and Declaratory Judgment and Motion for Judgment
on the Administrative Record (hereinafter “P’s Mot.”) at 7. In making that assertion, AT&T argued
that the technical evaluation was unreasonable, particularly given that AT&T’s proposal was priced *
* *. Id. The GAO informed the Agency of the protest, and on July 5, 2017, Census ordered CDW-G to
stop work- on the contract in accordance with CICA § 3553. AR 896-98. On July 18, 2017, Census
issued its Determinations and Findings (“D & F”), authorizing the override of the automatic CICA
stay, and allowing CDW-G to resume work under the contract. AR 907. The D & F stated that any delay
could “introducen adverse risk, unacceptable delays, and cost increases, and jeopardized the mission
and quality of the 2020 Census Program.” AR 906. It further concluded that there are “urgent and
compelling cii’cumstances which significantly, adversely affect the interests of the United States”
and, as such, the “2020 Census schedule will not permit a delay.” AR 907. On July 26, 2017, AT & T
requested that the GAO protest be conducted under expedited procedures. P’s Mot. at 8. On July 28,
2017, the GAO denied the request. Id. Aso on July 28, 2017, AT & T filed its Complaint for
Declaratory and Injunctive Relief, asking that this Court “enjoin the United States Department of
Commerce, Census Bureau [ ] from unlawfully proceeding on the performance of the 2020 Census
Decennial Device as a Service (“dDaaS”) task order.” Complaint for Declaratory and Injunctive Relief
(hereinafter “CompL”) at 1. Plaintiffs Motion for Preliminary Injunction and Declaratory Judgment is
fully briefed and ripe for review. II. Applicable Legal Standard A. Jurisdiction and Standard of
Review This Court has jurisdiction over bid protest actions pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1491(b). The
Court evaluates bid protests under the Administrative Procedure Act’s (“APA”) standard of review for
an agency action. Bannum, Inc. v. United States, 404 F.3d 1346, 1351 (Fed. Cir. 2005) (citing
Impresa Construzioni Geom. Domenico Garufi v. United States, 238 F.3d 1324, 1332 (Fed. Cir. 2001)).
A motion for judgment on the Administrative Record pursuant to Rule 52.1 of the Rules of the United
States Court of Federal Claims (“RCFC”) assesses whether the administrative body, given all the
disputed and undisputed facts in the record, acted in a manner that complied with the legal
standards governing the decision under review. Supreme Foodservice GmbH v. United States, 109
Fed.Cl. 369, 382 (2013) (citing Fort Carson Supp. Servs. v. United States, 71 Fed.Cl. 571, 585
(2006); Greene v. United States, 65 Fed.Cl. 375, 382 (2005); Arch Chems., Inc. v. United States, 64
Fed.Cl. 380, 388 (2005)). Under Rule 52.1 of the RCFC, the parties are limited to the Administrative
Record, and the Court makes findings of fact as if it were conducting a trial on a paper record. See
Bannum, 404 F.3d at 1354. Looking to the Administrative Record, the Court must determine whether a
party has met its burden of proof based on the evidence in the record. Id. at 1355. B, CICA
Automatic Stay When a bid protest action is initiated at the GAO, an automatic stay of the protested
contract award is triggered under CICA until the protest action is resolved. 31 U.S.C. § 3553(c)(1).
This automatic stay serves the important purpose of preserving “competition in contracting and
ensuring] a fair and effective process at the GAO.” Reilly’s Wholesale Produce v. United States, 73
Fed.Cl. 705, 710 (2006) (citing Advanced Sys. Dev., Inc. v. United States, 72 Fed.Cl. 25, 31
(2006)). “An agency may override an automatic stay if it notifies the GAO in writing that either
‘performance of the contract is in the best interests of the United States,’ or ‘urgent and
compelling circumstances that significantly affect interests of the United States will not permit
waiting for the decision of the Comptroller General concerning the protest.’ ” Nortel Gov’t Sols.,
Inc. v. United States, 84 Fed.Cl. 243, 247 (2008) (citing 31 U.S.C. § 3553(d)(3)(C)). When an agency
overrides a CICA stay, the Court reviews that decision pursuant to the stan-. dards established by
the APA, 5 U.S.C. § 706. Planetspace Inc. v. United States, 86 Fed.Cl. 566, 567 (2009); Alion
Science & Tech. Corp. v. United States, 69 Fed.Cl. 14, 23 (2005). A protestor challenging an
override decision must establish that the “decision ... was arbitrary and capricious.” PGBA, LLC v.
United States, 57 Fed.Cl. 655, 660 (2003). In reviewing an agency’s decision to override the CICA
automatic stay, this Court has routinely applied the four-part test established in Reilly’s
Wholesale Produce v. United States. Reilly’s Wholesale, 73 Fed.Cl. at 705. Nortel sets forth the
standard as follows: When asserting that urgent and compelling circumstances require immediate
performance of a contract, there are several factors an agency must consider, including: (1)
“whether significant adverse consequences will necessarily occur if the stay is not overridden;” (2)
“whether reasonable alternatives to the override exist;” (3) “how the potential cost of proceeding
with the override, including the costs associated with the potential that the GAO might sustain the
protest, compare[ ] to the benefits associated with the approach being considered for addressing the
agency’s needs;” and (4) the impact of the override on competition and the integrity of the
procurement system, as reflected in CICA. Nortel, 84 Fed.Cl. at 247 (citing Reilly’s Wholesale
Produce, 73 Fed.Cl. at 711); see also Superior Helicopter LLC v. United States, 78 Fed.Cl. 181, 189
(2007). The question before the Court is whether the Agency’s D & F substantively met the arbitrary
and capricious APA review standard that applies under 28 U.S.C. § 1491(b)(4). See RAMCOR Servs.
Grp., Inc. v. United States, 185 F.3d 1286, 1290 (Fed. Cir. 1999). Under the legal scheme set out in
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers Ass’n. of the United States v. State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance
Co. an agency decision would be arbitrary and capricious if the agency has relied on factors which
Congress has not intended it to consider, entirely failed to consider an important aspect of the
problem, offered an explanation for its decision that runs counter to the evidence before the
agency, or is so implausible that it could not be ascribed to a difference in view or the product of
agency expertise. Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Ass’n of the U.S. v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co., 463 U.S.
29, 43, 103 S.Ct. 2856, 77 L.Ed.2d 443 (1983); see also Ala. Aircraft Indus., Inc.-Birmingham v.
United States, 586 F.3d 1372, 1375 (Fed. Cir. 2009). III. Discussion A. The Reilly’s Wholesale Test
When an agency is making a decision on whether or not to override the automatic CICA stay,
application of the Reilly’s Wholesale test is not required. However, it is a useful analytical tool
for the Court in reviewing whether the override was arbitrary and capricious. “In highlighting these
particular factors, our court is not substituting its judgment for that of an agency concerning
aspects that are important for a particular procurement, but is rather identifying factors that
would logically be necessary or irrelevant to override decisions in general.” Supreme Foodservice,
109 Fed.Cl. at 386. While an agency is not required to incorporate the Reilly’s Wholesale factors,
in the case at bar, Census listed those factors in the D & F, outlining its consideration of each
one. AR 902. The government argues that the Reilly’s Wholesale factors are not dispositive, and that
this Court could follow in the vein of Planetspace Inc. v. United States in solely applying the four
factor test for injunctive relief. D’s Resp. at 17; Planetspace Inc., 86 Fed.Cl. at 567. However,
given the substan-tivé use of the Reilly’s Wholesale factors by the Agency itself, it seems only
logical that this Court use this analytical framework as well, consistent with the majority of other
CICA override decisions in this Court. The first factor in the Reilly’s Wholesale test focuses on
“whether significant adverse consequences will necessarily occur if the stay is not overridden.”
Nortel, 84 Fed.Cl. at 247 (citing Reilly’s Wholesale, 73 Fed.Cl. at 711). In its D & F, the Agency
considers the first factor and finds that “[the] longer the length of the work stoppage, the greater
the adverse impacts on the ability of the [United States Census Bureau] to ensure the engineering
and mobile solutions and services are integrated, scalable, secure, and can perform for the 2018
End-to-End Census Test.” AR 903. The Agency goes on to state that any delay in the execution of the
procurement would amount to “unacceptable schedule delays and cost increases, and jeopardizes the
mission and quality of the 2020 Census Program.” Id. at 905. These, the Agency finds, are “urgent
and compelling circumstances which significantly, adversely affect the interests of the United
States.” Id. at 906; see also 31 U.S.C. § 3553(d)(3)(C)(i)(II). However, the Agency has not
demonstrated any immediate threat to health, welfare, or safety, which are the types of
circumstances that typically qualify as “urgent and compelling.” Supreme Foodservice 109 Fed.Cl. at
387; see also PMTech v. United States, 95 Fed.Cl. 330, 345-46 (2010). While these are not the only
circumstances that have led to an agency override being upheld, threats to health, welfare, or
safety provide this Court with compelling circumstances affecting the public interest that most
often tip the scales in favor of an override. The Court recognizes the importance of the decennial
census, and its status as a Congressional and Constitutional priority, but the risks associated with
testing delays are not risks to public safety. Furthermore, as plaintiff points out, all of the
adverse consequences the Agency details will not necessarily occur, but are potential risks. P’s
Mot. at 19. After reviewing the government’s evidence and arguments about the effects of the CICA
stay, the Court finds that the override was based on a lot of speculation. The Agency seems to treat
its own schedule as a hard fact to prove its case. This is undercut by three years spent on “market
research,” which caused the Agency to adopt a schedule in which this period of 100 days is allegedly
critical. The Agency’s reasoning is speculative, and the argument that the test run must occur on
April 1, 2018 is based on borderline ridiculous assumptions. The Agency argues that it must begin
the test on April 1, 2018, as the Census will begin on April 1, 2020, in order to control for
weather and job market conditions. They might as well have justified the date with the astrological
settings! The government’s argument hinges on April 1, 2018 being set in stone. While the Agency may
find the stay inconvenient, as most stays generally are, convenience was not a factor Congress
considered in enacting CICA The Reilly’s Wholesale test’s second factor is “whether reasonable
alternatives to the override exist.” Nortel, 84 Fed.Cl. at 247 (citing Reilly’s Wholesale, 73
Fed.Cl. at 711). In response to this question, the Agency determined that there are no reasonable
alternatives available to address the issues arising from the 100-day stay. AR 905. The Agency makes
this finding on the basis that “the [United States Census Bureau] does not have time to obtain
devices from another contractor via competition.” Id. The only option Census explored, according to
the D & F, is extending the contract of a previous supplier. Id. While the alternative options
suggested by the plaintiff may or may not be viable—as the government asserts—there is still nothing
in the record that leads this Court to find that no other reasonable alternatives exist. Further,
nothing in the Administrative Record shows this Court that the Agency even engaged in a meaningful
review of other reasonable alternatives. The third Reilly’s Wholesale factor examines “how the
potential cost of proceeding with the override, including the costs associated with the potential
that the GAO might sustain the protest, compare[ ] to the benefits associated with the approach
being considered for addressing the agency’s needs.” Nortel, 84 Fed.Cl. at 247 (citing Reilly’s
Wholesale, 73 Fed.Cl. at 711). The Agency estimated that the cost for the contractor to perform
during the override is $1.6 million. AR 906. There is no further explanation or breakdown of the
$1.5 million cost in the D & F, indicating to the Court that the Agency did not conduct a
significant analysis of the cost and benefits of proceeding with the override. For example, the
Agency did not consider the additional costs should GAO sustains plaintiffs protest. The Agency
includes no reasoning to demonstrate that the benefits of the override outweigh the costs of
proceeding with the CICA stay in place. Thus, the cost-benefit analysis cannot be said to weigh in
favor of the override. The fourth factor in the Reilly’s Wholesale test addresses “the impact of the
override on competition and the integrity of the procurement system, as reflected in CICA.” Nortel,
84 Fed.Cl. at 247 (citing Reilly’s Wholesale, 78 Fed.Cl. at 711). This Court has previously held
that “Congress has determined that the public interest is served by the imposition of an automatic
stay to allow the GAO an opportunity to ascertain the merits of a bid protest.” URS Fed. Servs.,
Inc. v. United States, 102 Fed.Cl. 674, 677 (2012). “After repeated elaboration, it should be beyond
controversy that the point of the CICA automatic stay was to enhance the GAO as a forum for bid
protests, so that the integrity of the competitive procurement process could be protected.” Supreme
Foodservice, 109 Fed.Cl. at 385; see also, PMTech, 95 Fed.Cl. at 346-47; CIGNA Gov’t Servs., LLC v.
United States, 70 Fed.Cl. 100, 112 (2006); PGBA LLC, 57 Fed.Cl. at 657-58. Essentially, “ ‘the
automatic stay is intended to preserve the status quo during the pen-dency of the protest so that an
agency would not cavalierly disregard GAO’s recommendations to cancel the challenged award,’ thereby
‘preserving] competition in contracting and ensuring] a fair and effective process at the GAO.’ ”
Reilly’s Wholesale, 73 Fed.Cl. at 710 (alterations in original) (quoting Advanced Sys. Dev., 72
Fed.Cl. at 31). By refusing to respect the CICA stay, the Agency has put itself in a primed position
to, at a later point in the protest process, argue that it would be unfairly burdened if the award
to CDW-G were set aside, because Census would be forced to replicate months’ worth of work that had
already been completed. If this Court were to allow the agency override to stand, it would
ultimately be pulling the CICA teeth from the GAO, rendering it a government body with bark but no
ability to bite. This is not what Congress intended. As such, this Court must invalidate the
Agency’s decision to override the stay. R. Injunctive Relief Having found that the Agency was
arbitrary in its override of the CICA stay in accordance with the Reilly’s Wholesale test, this
Court need not go further. While plaintiffs Motion was styled as one for a preliminary injunction,
AT & T’s claim is really asking for declaratory relief. “Declaratory relief is particularly
appropriate in bid protest actions contesting agency stay override determinations entered pursuant
to 31 U.S.C. § 3553(d)(3)(C).” Chapman Law Firm Co. v. United States, 65 Fed.Cl. 422, 424 (2005).
This Court agrees with the rear soning set forth in Chapman Law Firm, which stated the following:
Congress did not require any evaluation of injunctive relief factors as a prerequisite to a stay of
contract performance upon the filing of a protest with the GAO, Thus, it would be contrary to the
legislative scheme to impose such an additional requirement, upon finding that an agency override de
termination lacks validity, m order to reinstate the statutory stay applicable during the GAO
protest period. Declaratory relief preserves the scheme that Congress enacted. Chapman Law Firm, 65
Fed.Cl. at 424. “Congress enacted a statute requiring less than the typical injunctive relief
factors.” Supreme Foodservice GmbH, 109 Fed.Cl. at 397 (emphasis in original). “In creating the CICA
stay of performance, Congress decided that the injunctive relief factors need not be invoked when a
bid protest is timely filed with the GAO, instead requiring that contract performance be stayed
automatically.” Id.; see also 31 U.S.C. § 3553(d)(3)(A)-(B). “To allow an arbitrary override to
insert the injunctive relief requirements into the process would convert the CRÍA stay to something
other than what Congress created.” Id.


