**gold_text:**
A defendant has a reasonable expectation that, barring unforeseen circumstances, he will be tried by
the jury selected. The trial judge is not at liberty to interfere with the jury selected unless it
has adequate cause. Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 24(c) provides that alternate jurors shall
replace jurors who, before deliberation commences, "become or are found to be unable or disqualified
to perform their duties." While the court's decision to replace a juror with an alternate juror must
be for a legally relevant reason and have a factual basis, its judgment to do so is reviewed for
abuse of discretion. See United States v. Hayden, 85 F.3d 153, 156-57 (4th Cir.1996) (reviewing for
abuse of discretion a refusal to grant mistrial, instead replacing juror with alternate); United
States v. Acker, 52 F.3d 509, 515 (4th Cir.1995) (reviewing for abuse of discretion a decision to
dismiss juror and proceed with eleven). A finding that a district court acted on an irrelevant legal
basis or lacked factual support for the conclusion that a juror was unable or disqualified to
perform his duty amounts to a finding that the court abused its discretion. To obtain a new trial,
however, the objecting party must nevertheless establish prejudice.

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
In examining Nelson's contention, we refer to United States v. Smith, 44 F.3d 1259 (4th Cir.), where
the court emphasized that less drastic alternatives to a mistrial should be considered to eliminate
any prejudice (85 F.3d 153). The district judge in this case did precisely that by replacing the two
jurors with alternates, thereby avoiding the expense and delay of a mistrial and mitigating any
potential prejudicial impact.  Additionally, in United States v. Thompson, 744 F.2d 1065 (4th Cir.),
it was noted that a biased juror can be dismissed and replaced with an alternate (85 F.3d 153). The
same principle applies here, where the district court’s action was aimed at preventing any rushed or
pressured verdict due to the jury's holiday travel plans. The court acted prudently by interviewing
the concerned jurors and making decisions that would ensure the deliberations remained fair and
unrushed.  Concerning Nelson’s argument that the court dismissed African-American jurors without
exploring alternatives, the case United States v. Thompson again supports that the court did not
abuse its discretion as long as the dismissal was necessary to avoid prejudice (85 F.3d 153).
Similarly, the decision in 52 F.3d 509 highlights the court’s discretion in excusing a juror when
necessary circumstances arise during trial proceedings.  In conclusion, the district court did not
abuse its discretion in replacing the two jurors, and Nelson’s arguments to the contrary lack merit.
We find no reason to overturn the district court's decision based on the principles established in
the referenced cases.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
 In the case of dismissing a juror due to their travel plans, the court must consider whether there
are less drastic alternatives to a mistrial that will eliminate any prejudice. United States v.
Smith, 44 F.3d 1259, 1268 (4th Cir.), cert. denied, — U.S. -, 115 S.Ct. 1970, 131 L.Ed.2d 859
(1995). In this case, the district court dismissed the two jurors with travel plans, replacing them
with alternates. This was done to avoid the pressure on the jurors to reach a verdict in time to
meet their travel plans.  Nelson argues that the court did not have adequate information to reach
this conclusion and that the court failed to explore reasonable alternatives, particularly given the
race of the two jurors. However, the court's decision was not unreasonable, as it considered the
potential impact on the jurors' deliberations and the need to maintain a fair and impartial jury.
United States v. Thompson, 744 F.2d 1065, 1068 (4th Cir.1984); Fed.R.Crim.P. 24(e).  In a similar
case, the court held that the district court did not abuse its discretion in excusing a juror who
had been injured and was seeking medical attention. United States v. Grajales, 52 F.3d 509 (4th
Cir.). Similarly, in this case, the court's decision to dismiss the two jurors was reasonable and
did not prejudice the defendant's rights.  In conclusion, the court's decision to dismiss the two
jurors due to their travel plans was reasonable and did not prejudice the defendant's rights. The
court considered the potential impact on the jurors' deliberations and the need to maintain a fair
and impartial jury. United States v. Smith, 44 F.3d 1259, 1268 (4th Cir.), cert. denied, — U.S. -,
115 S.Ct. 1970, 131 L.Ed.2d 859 (1995).


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-finetuned:***
  In considering whether a district court abused its discretion in dismissing a juror, we must
consider whether the court “considered all reasonable alternatives to mistrial.” United States v.
Smith, 85 F.3d 153, 159 (4th Cir.), cert. denied, — U.S. -, 116 S.Ct. 1970, 131 L.Ed.2d 859 (1995).
The court’s decision is not reviewable unless it is “arbitrary, capricious, or manifestly
unreasonable.” United States v. Thompson, 744 F.2d 1065, 1068 (4th Cir.1984). In determining whether
the court acted reasonably, we must consider the context of the case, the nature of the travel
plans, and the potential for pressure on the jurors to reach a verdict. See United States v. Davis,
52 F.3d 509, 516 (4th Cir.), cert. denied, — U.S. -, 115 S.Ct. 250, 130 L.Ed.2d 171 (1994). In this
case, the court did consider the context of the case and the nature of the travel plans before
excusing the two jurors. It also considered the potential for pressure on the jurors to reach a
verdict. In light of the court’s consideration of all reasonable alternatives, we find no abuse of
discretion in the court’s decision to replace the two jurors with alternates. See United States v.
Winfield, 54 F.3d 1175, 1183-84 (4th Cir.), cert. denied, — U.S. -, 115 S.Ct. 1970, 131 L.Ed.2d 859
(1995). We therefore affirm the district court’s decision. See United States v. Williams, 52 F.3d
509, 516 (4th Cir.), cert. denied, — U.S. -, 115 S.Ct. 250, 130 L.Ed.2d 171 (1994). While the
court’s decision was not perfect, it was not arbitrary, capricious, or manifestly unreasonable.
United States v. Thompson, 744 F.2d 1065, 1068 (4th Cir.1984). The court’s decision is accordingly
affirmed. See United States v. Davis, 52 F.3d 509, 516 (4th Cir.), cert. denied, — U.S. -,


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['85 F.3d 153', '52 F.3d 509']

***short_citations_0:*** 85 F.3d 153

consider whether there are less drastic alternatives to a mistrial that will eliminate any prejudice. United States v. Smith, 44 F.3d 1259, 1268 (4th Cir.), cert. denied, — U.S. -, 115 S.Ct. 1970, 131 L.Ed.2d 859 (1995). In the instance of a biased juror, that juror “can be dismissed and replaced with an alternate juror.” United States v. Thompson, 744 F.2d 1065, 1068 (4th Cir.1984); Fed.R.Crim.P. 24(e). Here, the judge did just that — he removed the juror and replaced him with an alternate juror, a measure which eliminated the prejudice of the juror knowing a witness, but did not necessitate the expense and delay of a mistrial. We therefore find no prejudice. The defendants also argue that dismissal of the only African-American on the jury could have led the remaining jurors to conclude that the dismissed juror was untrustworthy and, by implication, that the defendants, who were also African-American, were also untrustworthy. We disagree. Dismissal of a juror does not necessarily mean that the juror is untrustworthy. The district judge explained the dismissal of Williams to the jury. Furthermore, Williams’s dismissal was necessary to avoid the prejudice created by a biased juror. We therefore do not find that the district court abused its discretion in dismissing Williams and refusing to grant a mistrial. B. Motion for Acquittal The defendants (collectively) argue that the government failed to meet its burden to prove beyond a reasonable doubt each element of the offense as required by In re Winship, 397 U.S. 358,

***short_citations_1:*** 52 F.3d 509

may indicate that more couples are living together without the benefit of marriage, but reason dictates that before the courts extend a marital privilege to benefit a defendant, the defendant must have assumed both the privileges and the responsibilities of a valid marriage under the law of the state in which the privilege is asserted. The district court did not abuse its discretion in permitting Holly to testify against the defendant. rv. Defendant contends that the district court abused its discretion in excusing Brenda Revels as a juror once the jury had begun its deliberations, the alternate jurors had been excused, and following Revels’ telephone call to the Clerk of Court stating that she had been injured and was seeking medical attention. Appellant claims that juror Revels would have held out against the guilty verdicts, and that the district court should have conducted an evidentiary hearing on this issue as requested in her post-trial motion. Defense counsel originally did not object to proceeding with only 11 jurors, but after checking with his client he did register an objection, but did not move for a mistrial. After trial, defense counsel contacted juror Revels and prepared an affidavit which she signed and in which she stated in part: 5. That upon leaving the Courthouse on Wednesday evening, it was my firm conviction that there was a reasonable doubt as to the defendant’s guilt as to each and every count in the Bill of Indictment and that further deliberations would not have changed

**prev_text:**
Affirmed by published opinion. Judge NIEMEYER wrote the opinion, in which Judge MICHAEL and Judge
MOTZ joined. OPINION NIEMEYER, Circuit Judge: In connection with his cocaine conspiracy conviction,
James Kevin Nelson contends that the district court erred (1) in refusing to suppress $43,000 seized
from his shoulder bag when he was arrested, (2) in failing at any time during his four-day trial to
instruct jurors to refrain from discussing the case with others, and (3) in replacing two jurors who
had holiday travel plans beginning on what would have been the fifth day of trial. While we find
that the district court erred in failing to instruct jurors to refrain from discussing the case, the
error in the circumstances of this case does not require us to order a new trial, and we find no
merit in the other assignments of error. We therefore affirm. I After his arrest, Omar Grajales, who
was a cocaine supplier to the defendant Nelson, agreed to cooperate with agents of the Drug
Enforcement Administration (DEA). With Grajales’ cooperation, DEA agents arrested Nelson when Nelson
came to Grajales’ apartment to pick up two kilograms of cocaine. At the time of his arrest, Nelson
was carrying a black shoulder bag. While Nelson stood with his hands on his head, DEA agents
attempted to' check the bag. But because Nelson’s hands were on his head, they could not remove the
bag which was slung over his shoulder. Unzipping the bag, the agents noticed that it contained
money. At that point, the agents lowered' Nelson’s hands, removed the bag from his shoulder, and
took Nelson to an upstairs room for questioning. Within minutes, a DEA agent searched the bag and
found $43,000, the approximate street price of two kilograms of cocaine and $1,000 less than the
amount which Nelson had earlier agreed to pay Grajales. After being advised of his Miranda rights,
Nelson confessed to the agents that he had come to Grajales’ apartment to purchase two kilograms of
cocaine and that he had purchased a kilogram approximately every two to three weeks over the
previous year, which he then divided into one-ounce bags to sell or “front” to his customers. Nelson
filed a pretrial motion to suppress the $43,000 which was seized from his shoulder bag. After a
hearing, the district court denied the motion and allowed the government at trial to introduce
evidence of the $43,000 seizure. Nelson now contends that the district court’s ruling violated his
Fourth Amendment rights, arguing that the DEA agents did not have a warrant to conduct the search
and, because the DEA agents separated Nelson from his bag and did not search it immediately, the
search was not “incident to arrest.” To protect the safety of arresting officers and to avoid the
destruction of evidence, the Supreme Court has long recognized an exception to the Fourth Amendment
warrant requirement for searches incident to arrest. See United States v. Edwards, 415 U.S. 800,
807-09, 94 S.Ct. 1234, 1239-40, 39 L.Ed.2d 771 (1974). Although the “incident to arrest”
justification for warrantless searches does not permit an indefinite delay in a search, see United
States v. Chadwick, 433 U.S. 1, 14-15, 97 S.Ct. 2476, 2485-86, 53 L.Ed.2d 538 (1977) (holding that a
search more than one hour after arrest and at a police station was not within the exception), the
justification does last for a reasonable time after the officers obtain exclusive control of the
container that is to be searched, see Edwards, 415 U.S. at 805, 807-09, 94 S.Ct. at 1238, 1239-40
(upholding a ten-hour delay in search and seizure of clothing where overnight delay was necessary to
purchase replacement clothing for incarcerated defendant); New York v. Belton, 453 U.S. 454, 462-63,
101 S.Ct. 2860, 2865-66, 69 L.Ed.2d 768 (1981) (approving admission of cocaine found in a jacket in
the back seat of a car even though officers had removed the suspect from the car before searching
the jacket). Indeed, in a case re markably similar to that before us, we held specifically that
“when a container is within the immediate control. of a suspect at the beginning of an encounter
with law enforcement officers,” the officers can search the container incident to an arrest .if (1)
the search is conducted at the scene of the arrest and (2) any delay in the search is a “reasonable”
one. United States v. Han, 74 F.3d 537, 543 (4th Cir.), cert. denied, — U.S. -, 116 S.Ct. 1890, 135
L.Ed.2d 184 (1996); see also United States v. hitman, 739 F.2d 137, 139 (4th Cir.1984) (en banc)
(upholding search of a bag immediately after arrest when the bag was no longer under the suspect’s
control). Nelson contends that in this case the incident-to-arrest exception does not apply because
the risks of danger and destruction of evidence had passed. He argues: The search of the bag was not
contemporaneous with Mr. Nelson’s arrest, was not conducted when Mr. Nelson was within the same part
of the house as the search, was not searched within the same room in which it was seized and was
performed when Mr. Nelson was already handcuffed. While the need for the incident-to-arrest
exception is indeed grounded on the need to protect law enforcement officers and evidence, the
validity of such a search does not end at the instant the risks justifying the search come to an
end. Even though the warrant exception is well grounded on the existence of exigent risks attending
arrest, the pragmatic necessity of not invalidating such a search the instant the risks pass is well
accepted. See, e.g., Belton, 453 U.S. at 462 n. 5, 101 S.Ct. at 2865 n. 5 (“[UJnder this fallacious
theory no search or seizure incident to a lawful custodial arrest would ever be valid; by seizing an
article even on the arrestee’s person, an officer may be said to have reduced that article to his
‘exclusive control’”). Just as arresting officers need not determine that the defendant actually
have a gun or actually intend to destroy evidence before conducting a search incident to arrest,
they need not reorder the sequence of their conduct during arrest simply to satisfy an artificial
rule that would link the validity of the search to the duration of the risks. Pragmatic necessity
requires that we uphold the validity and reasonableness of a search incident to arrest if the search
is part of the specific law enforcement operation during which the search occurs. And we so held in
Han. In this case, agents arrested Nelson in the front room of an apartment. During the course of
that operation they removed his shoulder bag, took him to a separate upstairs bedroom for
questioning, and searched the bag — all within a few minutes. The district court did not err in
denying Nelson’s motion to suppress the fruits of this search. II Nelson next contends that he
should be afforded a new trial because the district court failed to instruct jurors at any time
during trial that they should not discuss the case with anyone outside the courtroom and that they
should not discuss the case among themselves until they retire to deliberate. While the district
court did admonish the jury in its final instructions that “anything that you may have seen or heard
about this case outside the courtroom is, of course, not evidence and must be entirely disregarded,”
our review of the record and the government’s concession confirms that at no time did the district
court provide the jurors with a proper instruction about discussing the case with others. It is also
apparent that Nelson did not request such an instruction, nor did he object to the court’s failure
to instruct the jury about their conduct. Moreover, we have been made aware of no evidence that any
juror discussed this case with anyone outside of the courtroom or with other jurors before
deliberation. To assure that jurors properly carry out their role as factfinders in a trial, the
trial judge must instruct them on the nature of their task, its limitations, and proper conduct
while serving as jurors. It is accordingly customary to advise jurors at the beginning of trial that
they are the factfinders, that they will apply those facts to the law given to them by the court,
and that they are to find those facts solely from evidence presented to them in the courtroom. And
to assure that the jury’s verdict is rendered solely on the facts presented in the court and from
deliberation of only the jurors sworn to hear the case, the jury must be instructed in substance: I
instruct you that during the trial you are not to discuss the case with anyone or permit anyone to
discuss it with you. Until you retire to the jury room at the end of the case to deliberate on your
verdict, you simply are not to talk about this case. In this case no such prophylactic instruction
was given. While Nelson argues for the first time on appeal that he should receive a new trial
because of its omission, he forfeited the error at trial by not raising it. And rather than arguing
now that prejudice resulted, he maintains that the error was fundamental and that he is entitled to
a new trial without demonstrating any prejudice, referring us to United States v. Williams, 635 F.2d
744, 745-46 (8th Cir.1980). Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 52(b) provides that we may correct
error that was forfeited during trial so long as the error was “plain” and “affeet[s] substantial
rights.” See United States v. Olano, 507 U.S. 725, 732, 113 S.Ct. 1770, 1776-77, 123 L.Ed.2d 508
(1993). And we should not exercise the discretion to correct such plain error unless it “seriously
a£fect[s] the fairness, integrity or public reputation of judicial proceedings.” Id. (citations and
internal quotation omitted). To demonstrate that plain error affected substantial rights, a
defendant must carry the burden of persuading the court that the error affected the outcome of the
trial. Id. In this case, Nelson argues that prejudice must be presumed because the error was of a
category that deprives the defendant of basic protections without which “a criminal trial cannot
reliably serve its function as a vehicle for determination of guilt or innocence.” Arizona v.
Fulminante, 499 U.S. 279, 310, 111 S.Ct. 1246, 1265, 113 L.Ed.2d 302 (1991) (quoting Rose v. Clark,
478 U.S. 570, 577-78, 106 S.Ct. 3101, 3105-06, 92 L.Ed.2d 460 (1986)). We cannot agree that the
error in this case was so fundamental as to require a new trial regardless of the error’s effect.
The rule requiring district courts to instruct jurors is a prophylactic measure. If a prophylactic
instruction is not given but the harm that it was designed to forestall never occurs, it would be
pointless to order a new trial simply to have the instruction given. This conclusion is consistent
with the analogous holding by the Supreme Court in Olano, where the Court found harmless the error
of allowing an alternate juror to be present with the jury during deliberations. In refusing to
require a new trial in that circumstance, the Supreme Court noted: “If no harm resulted from this
intrusion of an alternate juror into the jury room, reversal would be pointless.” Olano, 507 U.S. at
738, 113 S.Ct. at 1780 (quoting United States v. Watson, 669 F.2d 1374, 1391 (11th Cir.1982)). While
our conclusion may be at odds with the Eighth Circuit’s holding in Williams, we note that the Eighth
Circuit decided that case before the Supreme Court’s decision in Olano. In concluding that the error
in failing to instruct the jury about discussions outside the court should be reviewed for
prejudicial impact, we join the Seventh and Fifth Circuits. See United States v. Davis, 15 F.3d
1393, 1410 (7th Cir.), cert. denied, — U.S. -, 115 S.Ct. 250, 130 L.Ed.2d 171 (1994); Rotolo v.
United States, 404 F.2d 316, 317 (5th Cir.1968). Since Nelson has failed to carry his burden of
persuading us that the district court’s error was prejudicial, we conclude that the district court’s
error in failing to instruct the jury about its conduct during trial was harmless. Ill Finally,
Nelson contends that the district court abused its discretion in dismissing two jurors during trial
because their travel plans potentially conflicted with jury deliberations. He contends that the
district court “had no evidence before it which justified the dismissal of two African American
jurors without some investigation into possible alternatives.” On the morning of the fourth day of
trial, Thursday, December 22, 1994, the district court received notes from two jurors that they had
holiday travel plans beginning the next day, Friday, December 23. Concerned that the jurors would
feel pressure to render a verdict quickly, the court solicited views from the parties on whether to
replace the two jurors with alternates. While the government attorney agreed to substitute the
alternates, counsel for the defendant expressed the preference that the jury remain as constituted.
The defendant suggested that the jury be allowed to separate during the few days that the two jurors
were traveling and resume the case on December 29. The court expressed its preference, however, to
have the jury deliberate on consecutive days, if possible. Noting that both of the jurors concerned
were black and expressing its sensitivity to the racial composition of the jury, the court
determined that it would be prudent to speak with both jurors about their travel plans before making
its decision. The first juror informed the court that she and her husband would be leaving at the
end of the day on December 23 to take a long-planned yearly trip to Virginia and North Carolina and
that they would be gone from December 23 through December 28. The second juror informed the court
that he had an airline ticket to leave for Atlanta the next day and would need to leave at about
noon. He stated that he would return December 27. The court concluded that to keep the jurors on the
case would place pressure on them to reach a verdict in time to meet their travel plans and
accordingly replaced them with the alternates. The court noted that even though it was excusing two
black jurors, four black jurors remlined. The jury as reconstituted with the two alternate jurors
began its deliberations on December 22 and later that afternoon reached a guilty verdict. Nelson
contends that (1) the court did not have adequate information to reach the conclusion that the jury
would feel rushed to reach a verdict and (2) even if there were such evidence, that the court
failed, particularly in light of the race of the two jurors, to explore reasonable alternatives
before substituting alternate jurors.


