**gold_text:**
The defendants also contend that thousands of the class members will be customers whose accounts are
delinquent, and who will therefore be subject to counterclaims by one or more of the defendants. As
to those class members, the defendants argue, the presentation of counterclaims and defenses thereto
will require “mini-trials,” and will render the damages phase of this case utterly unmanageable. I
cannot accept this contention. Assuming arguendo that an absent class member is an “opposing party,”
Fed.R.Civ.P. 13, against whom a counterclaim may be asserted, it appears at this point that any
claims based on delinquent accounts would be permissive, rather than compulsory, counterclaims. See
Great Lakes Rubber Corp. v. Herbert Cooper Co., 286 F.2d 631, 634 (3d Cir. 1961) (counterclaim is
compulsory only where “separate trials on each of [the opposing parties’] respective claims would
involve a substantial duplication of effort and time”). A district court may not, of course,
entertain a permissive counterclaim unless an independent jurisdictional basis for it exists. E. g.,
United States v. Heyward-Robinson Co., 430 F.2d 1077, 1080 (2d Cir. 1970), cert. denied, 400 U.S.
1021, 91 S.Ct. 582, 27 L.Ed.2d 632 (1971); Revere Copper & Brass, Inc. v. Aetna Cas. & Sur. Co., 426
F.2d 709, 714 (5th Cir. 1970). Thus, the only counterclaims that I could hear in this case would be
those that involved (1) an amount in excess of $10,000, and (2) a defendant and a class member of
diverse citizenship. 28 U.S.C.A. § 1332(a)(1) (Supp.1977). Counterclaims that satisfy both
requirements will, in all likelihood, be so few as to present no serious impediment to the
management of this class action.

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
The defendants also contend that the plaintiffs' individual damage claims will necessitate numerous
"mini-trials," complicating the proceedings unduly. In response, it is crucial to consider the
purpose and application of Rule 23(b)(3). As established in 286 F.2d 631, fairness and
considerations of convenience and economy demand that interconnected claims be litigated
collectively, avoiding substantial duplication of effort and time. This perspective is integral to
managing complex litigation efficiently.   Additionally, in accordance with 426 F.2d 709, the
presence of common factual and legal questions related to the plaintiffs' claims signifies that
these issues should be resolved in a unified proceeding. The defendants' assertion, that
individualized damage assessments outweigh the benefits of a class action, fails to acknowledge that
the primary inquiry — liability rooted in an alleged conspiracy — remains central and collective.
This aligns with the principle that counterclaims bearing a "logical relationship" to the main claim
should be addressed jointly to prevent piecemeal litigation.  Moreover, under the scrutiny of 430
F.2d 1077, it is evident that managing discovery and damages collectively under the class action
umbrella, despite its challenges, is not rendered impractical or unfair. The collective resolution
method remains the superior and necessary mechanism to afford all potential class members an
opportunity for redress.  Therefore, I find that the plaintiffs have met the Rule 23(b)(3)
requirements, affirming that common questions predominate and a class action is superior in this
context.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
 In determining whether a counterclaim is compulsory, courts consider whether the claims bear a
"logical relationship" to each other. This relationship is often described as being based on the
same factual and legal issues or being offshoots of the same basic controversy between the parties.
In Cooper v. Great Lakes Steel Div., 286 F.2d 631, the court held that a counterclaim is compulsory
if it bears a logical relationship to an opposing party's claim.  In the case at hand, the
counterclaimant alleges that the claims asserted in the amended complaint are "unjustified" and were
brought in "bad faith and without color of right with the sole object of harassing and preventing
defendant [Cooper] from competing in the manufacture and sale of flexible hose." This allegation
demonstrates a relationship within the purview of Rule 13(a) to the amended complaint or
counterclaim. As stated in Cooper v. Great Lakes Steel Div., the issue of the existence of ancillary
jurisdiction and the issue as to whether a counterclaim is compulsory are to be answered by the same
test.  The defendants contend that the counterclaim is not compulsory because it is unrelated to the
claims asserted in the amended complaint. However, the court finds that the counterclaim bears a
logical relationship to the claims asserted in the amended complaint. Therefore, the counterclaim is
compulsory and must be asserted in the same suit as the amended complaint.  In conclusion, the court
finds that the counterclaim is compulsory and must be asserted in the same suit as the amended
complaint. The court's decision is based on the logical relationship between the claims and the same
factual and legal issues that underlie the controversy between the parties. As stated in Cooper v.
Great Lakes Steel Div., the doctrine of res judicata compels the counterclaimant to assert his claim
in the same suit for it would be barred if asserted separately, subsequently.


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['286 F.2d 631', '430 F.2d 1077', '426 F.2d 709']

***short_citations_0:*** 286 F.2d 631

of the rule which it was designed to implement. Thus, a counterclaim is logically related to the opposing party’s claim where separate trials on each of their respective claims would involve a substantial duplication of effort and time by the parties and the courts. Where multiple claims involve many of the same factual issues, or the same factual and legal issues, or where they are offshoots of the same basic controversy between the parties, fairness and considerations of convenience and of economy require that the counter-claimant be permitted to maintain his cause of action. Indeed the doctrine of res judicata compels the counterclaimant to assert his claim in the same suit for it would be barred if asserted separately, subsequently. Cooper alleges that the claims originally asserted in Great Lakes’ amended complaint, reiterated in substance in its counterclaim, are “unjustified” and were brought in “bad faith and without color of right with the sole object of harassing and preventing defendant [Cooper] from competing in the manufacture and sale of flexible hose.” These are the only allegations set out by Cooper’s counterclaim which demonstrate a relationship within the purview of Rule 13(a) to Great Lakes’ amended complaint or counterclaim. But that they do demonstrate a relationship is unquestionable. It is clear that a determination that. Cooper’s claims that the claims asserted in Great Lakes’ amended complaint and reiterated in substance in its counterclaim are harassing will entail an extensive airing of the facts and the law relating to Great Lakes’ counterclaim.

***short_citations_1:*** 430 F.2d 1077

these matters.” Counsel for the appellants replied that he did not.

***short_citations_2:*** 426 F.2d 709

631, 633-634, where the court said: * * * the issue of the existence of ancillary jurisdiction and the issue as to whether a counterclaim is compulsory are to be answered by the same test. * * * The tests are the same because Rule 13(a) and the doctrine of ancillary jurisdiction are designed to abolish the same evil, viz., piecemeal litigation in the federal courts. We have indicated that a counterclaim is compulsory if it bears a “logical relationship” to an opposing party’s claim. (Citing cases.) The phrase “logical relationship” is given meaning by the purpose of the rule which it was designed to implement. Thus, a counterclaim is logically related to the opposing party’s claim where separate trials on each of their respective claims would involve a substantial duplication of effort and time by the parties and the courts. Where multiple claims involve many of the same factual issues, or the same factual and legal issues, or where they are offshoots of the same basic controversy between the parties, fairness and considerations of convenience and of economy require that the counterclaimant be permitted to maintain his cause of action. * * * It would be fair to say, therefore, that a claim is ancillary when it bears a logical relationship to the aggregate core of operative facts which constitutes the main claim over which the court has an independent basis of federal jurisdiction. However, the type of relationship contemplated by the phrase “logical relationship” remains somewhat clouded. Perhaps

**prev_text:**
OPINION LUONGO, District Judge. These three antitrust actions, which are consolidated for all
purposes by the accompanying order, are before me on the plaintiffs’ motion for class action
certification. Fed.R.Civ.P. 23. The defendants vigorously oppose certification on a variety of
grounds. For the reasons set out in this opinion, I conclude that certification under Rule 23(b)(3)
is proper. The Axelrod complaint, filed on December 10, 1976, and amended on February 4, 1977, names
as defendants the corporations that operate three department stores — Saks Fifth Avenue, Bergdorf
Goodman, and Bonwit Teller. It alleges that they “have been engaged in a combination and conspiracy
in unreasonable restraint of . interstate trade and commerce in women’s clothing,” in violation of
section 1 of the Sherman Act, 15 U.S.C. § 1 (1976). Complaint ¶ 15. In particular, it alleges the
existence of a conspiracy “to raise, fix, stabilize and maintain retail prices of women’s clothing.”
Id. ¶ 15. These unlawful aims are alleged to have been furthered through the defendants’ practices
of “(a) Establishing uniform retail prices through the adoption of uniform mark-up lists and
maintaining adherence to such prices in New York and all branch stores including those stores in
which plaintiffs and the members of the class they represent made their purchases; (b) Inducing
manufacturers to use such uniform retail prices as manufacturers’ suggested retail prices and to
withhold women’s clothing from retailers who sell below such uniform prices; and (c) Establishing
dates for the beginning of clearance periods during which such uniform retail prices are reduced.”
Id. at ¶ 17. Axelrod seeks treble damages pursuant to section 4 of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C. § 15
(1976). Jurisdiction is based on 28 U.S.C. § 1337 (1970). The Adis complaint, filed on December 30,
1976, contains allegations that parallel those contained in the Axelrod complaint. The Squires
complaint, as originally filed on January 17, 1977, was somewhat broader than either of the others;
it named as defendants the operators of two other stores in addition to Saks Fifth Avenue, Bergdorf
Goodman, and Bonwit Teller, as well as several individual defendants. The amended Squires complaint,
filed on February 22, 1977, is limited to the three stores named in the Axelrod and Adis complaints,
however, and the individual defendants named in the Squires complaint were dismissed pursuant to a
stipulation on August 29, 1977. Bergdorf Goodman, Inc. filed its answers on February 18, 1977
(Axelrod complaint), March 9, 1977 (Adis complaint), and April 29, 1977 (Squires complaint). Saks &
Company filed its answers on February 18, 1977 (Axelrod complaint), March 1, 1977 (Adis complaint),
and May 19, 1977 (Squires complaint). Genesco, Inc., which operates the Bonwit Teller stores, filed
its answers on February 22, 1977 (Axelrod complaint), March 3,1977 (Adis complaint), and May 24,
1977 (Squires complaint). The plaintiffs seek to represent a class consisting of all charge account
customers of Saks Fifth Avenue, Bergdorf Goodman, and Bonwit Teller whose names appear in the
defendants’ billing records and who have billing addresses outside the New York Metropolitan Area,
and reside in Bucks, Chester, Delaware, Montgomery, or Philadelphia counties in the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, or in Burlington, Camden, or Gloucester counties in the state of New Jersey, or in the
state of Delaware, and since January 1, 1968, have by mail, by phone, or in person bought from the
stores operated by the defendants women’s clothing with an aggregate retail value of $250 or more,
which purchases were made on charge accounts opened by such stores. Plaintiffs’ Motion for Class
Action Determination (Document No. 20), Axelrod v. Saks & Co., No. 76-3805, at 1. The defendants
contend that certification is improper because, inter alia, the named plaintiffs’ claims are not
typical of the claims of other class members; the ultimate determination of any damages to be paid
to individual class members will require many thousands of “mini-trials,” including trials of
various counterclaims to be asserted by the defendants; and preparation of the required notice to
absent class members will be both costly and time-consuming. The basic prerequisite to the
maintenance of a class action is stated in Rule 23(a), which provides: “One or more members of a
class may sue or be sued as representative parties on behalf of all only if (1) the class is so
numerous that joinder of all members is impracticable, (2) there are questions of law or fact common
to the class, (3) the claims or defenses of the representative parties are typical of the claims or
defenses of the class, and (4) the representative parties will fairly and adequately protect the
interests of the class.” As to numerosity, there can be no colorable objection to certification. The
plaintiffs estimate that the proposed class will have 25.000 members, and the defendants evidently
regard this estimate as conservative. Compare Plaintiffs’ Memorandum in Support of Their Motion for
Class Action Determination (Document No. 20), Axelrod v. Saks & Co., No. 76-3805, at 5, 12 with
Defendants’ Memorandum in Opposition to Motions for Class Action Certification (Document No. 45), at
52 n.*. The joinder of 25.000 parties would plainly be impracticable. See 3B Moore’s Federal
Practice ¶23.-05, at p. 23-273 (2d ed. 1948) (“[A] number exceeding a thousand is obviously
sufficient to justify a class action.”). The commonality requirement similarly presents little
difficulty here. Under Rule 23(a)(2), of course, “not every question of fact and law must be common
to every member of the class.” Fox v. Prudent Resources Trust, 69 F.R.D. 74, 78 (E.D.Pa.1974). But
in this case, each question of fact or law bearing on the defendants’ liability is common to every
member of the class. This is so because if the plaintiffs can prove the existence of a conspiracy
that resulted in prices being fixed at a higher level than would have been reached under competitive
conditions, the defendants will then be jointly and severally liable to all class members who were
injured by their activities. See Wainwright v. Kraftco Corp., 58 F.R.D. 9, 11 (N.D.Ga.1973);
Washington v. American Pipe & Constr. Co., 280 F.Supp. 802, 804 n.4 (S.D.Cal.1968). A class member
obviously need not have made purchases at all three stores in order to have been injured by a price-
fixing conspiracy that established anticompetitive prices at all three stores. Thus, questions
bearing on the liability of any single defendant will be common to all class members, including
those who made no purchases from the store operated by that defendant. This satisfies the
commonality requirement of Rule 23(a)(2). The typicality requirement of Rule 23(a)(3) is also easily
satisfied here. As Judge Werker stated in Dennis v. Saks & Co., 1975-2 Trade Cas. (CCH) ¶ 60,396
(S.D. N.Y.1975), a case parallel to the one sub judice : “Although different items of clothing were
purchased by class members, the [basic] claim of each plaintiff rests on the existence of a price
fixing conspiracy on the part of the defendants.” Id. at p. 66,747. Furthermore, the defendants’
principal argument on typicality was premised on a class definition that counted purchases made at
any of the defendants’ stores in the United States toward the $250 threshold required for membership
in the class. Defendants’ Memorandum in Opposition to Motions for Class Certification, at 11 — 12.
Inasmuch as I have determined that class membership should be limited to those making qualifying
purchases at the defendants’ stores in the Philadelphia Metropolitan Area and the New York
Metropolitan Area, the defendants’ contention that the named plaintiffs’ claims are not typical of
the claims of a “nationwide class” is no longer pertinent. Finally, Rule 23(a)(4) requires adequate
protection of the class members’ interests. See also Comment, The Importance of Being Adequate: Due
Process Requirements in Class Actions Under Federal Rule 23,123 U.Pa.L.Rev. 1217, 1224-29 (1975).
“The traditional criteria by which to assess the adequacy of a plaintiff’s representation under
23(a)(4) are: (1) the plaintiff’s attorney must be qualified, experienced and generally able to
conduct the proposed litigation; and (2) the plaintiff must not have interests that are antagonistic
to those of the class.” Presseisen v. Swarthmore College, 71 F.R.D. 34, 45 (W.D.Pa.1976); see Sosna
v. Iowa, 419 U.S. 393, 403, 95 S.Ct. 553, 42 L.Ed.2d 532 (1975); Wetzel v. Liberty Mut. Ins. Co.,
508 F.2d 239, 247 (3d Cir.), cert. denied, 421 U.S. 1011, 95 S.Ct. 2415, 44 L.Ed.2d 679 (1975). The
defendants’ principal contention as to adequacy is that the five remaining named plaintiffs are
insufficiently “informed and active” to be adequate representatives. Defendants’ Memorandum in
Opposition to Motions for Class Action, at 37. In particular, they contend that the named plaintiffs
“are basically unfamiliar with the status of their cases, unaware of who their co-plaintiffs or
counsel are or how they came to join in the case and know nothing at all about any facts underlying
the complaint.” Id. 44-45 (emphasis in original). I find this contention unpersuasive. To begin
with, the defendants’ characterization is based largely on the named plaintiffs’ unfamiliarity with
such procedural aspects of their cases as joinder of co-plaintiffs and consolidation for trial. This
gap in the named plaintiffs’ information about their cases, however, has little or no bearing on
their adequacy as representatives. Second, the defendants’ characterization apparently reflects
their disdain for antitrust plaintiffs, such as those in this case, whose knowledge of the facts
that amount to an antitrust violation derives partially or entirely from secondary sources such as
newspaper stories. Id. 38, 39, 41, 42, 43, 45. It should suffice to say that a would-be class
representative in a complex antitrust case need not have, and often will not have, personal
knowledge of facts sufficient to make out a prima facie case. E. g., Chevalier v. Baird Sav. Ass’n,
72 F.R.D. 140, 146-47 (E.D.Pa.1976). Finally, the defendants’ underlying concern that lawyers “not
be free to wield so potent a weapon as a class action, without a real client to answer to,” while
not unappealing when stated as an abstract proposition, is fully answered by Chief Judge Lord’s
response to the same contention in Chevalier v. Baird Sav. Ass’n, supra : “The supposed unfettered
discretion of counsel does not trouble us. Most lawyers, especially when representing
unsophisticated litigants, have some degree of flexibility in their actions, before counsel settle
or dismiss this case, rule 23(e) requires our approval. Any fees to be paid counsel out of a
monetary recovery would be awarded by the court, which has an obligation to protect the interests of
the class members. See In re Coordinated Pretrial Proceedings, Etc., 410 F.Supp. 680, 690
(D.Minn.1975). Further, if at any time we felt that counsel were not acting in the best interests of
their clients, we would not hesitate to consider appropriate action pursuant to rule 23.” 72 F.R.D.
at 147. As to the ability of the named plaintiffs’ counsel, I am satisfied that they are fully
capable of conducting the proposed class action, with its attendant complexities. In short, the
prerequisites of Rule 23(a) have been satisfied. The plaintiffs seek certification of the proposed
class under Rule 23(b)(3), which provides: “(b) Class Actions Maintainable. An action may be
maintained as a class action if the prerequisites of subdivision (a) are satisfied, and in addition:
(3) the court finds that the questions of law or fact common to the members of the class predominate
over any questions affecting only individual members, and that a class action is superior to other
available methods for the fair and efficient adjudication of the controversy. The matters pertinent
to the findings include: (A) the interest of members of the class in individually controlling the
prosecution or defense of separate actions; (B) the extent and nature of any litigation concerning
the controversy already commenced by or against members of the class; (C) the desirability or
undesirability of concentrating the litigation of the claims in the particular forum; (D) the
difficulties likely to be encountered in the management of a class action.” The defendants raise
several objections to certification under Rule 23(b)(3), none of which are compelling. First, the
defendants argue that the laborious individual determinations of damages that would follow a
determination of classwide liability predominate over the common questions of law and fact that
would be tried in determining liability. Each side cites to numerous decisions that find classwide
liability issues to be predominant over individual damages issues, or vice-versa. As I read the
Advisory Committee’s Note on the 1966 amendments to Rule 23(b)(3), however, common questions may be
said to predominate where the individual questions go only to the amount of damages, rather than to
the existence of liability or the applicability of various defenses. I will therefore adopt the
approach followed by Judge Werker in Dennis v. Saks & Co., 1975-2 Trade Cas. (CCH) ¶ 60,396
(S.D.N.Y.1975), a case brought on behalf of charge account customers residing in the New York
Metropolitan Area that involved claims virtually identical to those asserted here: “It is the
court’s conclusion that at this point, the defendants’ assertion that measuring the impact of the
conspiracy and calculating individual damages will be an unmanageable task should not defeat
plaintiffs’ motion. The facts are too bare to reach such a conclusion. However, when discovery is
completed if it appears that, contrary to plaintiffs’ assertion, no general measure of damages can
be proven and that any trial will involve separate analysis of the impact of the conspiracy on
thousands of different styles of clothing, then the court, pursuant to the flexibility in Rule 23,
will reconsider class certification.” Id. at p. 66,749. The defendants argue further that even if
the common questions do predominate over the individual questions, the latter will be so complex and
difficult to resolve that the proposed class action cannot be said to be “superior” to other methods
of resolving this dispute. Fed.R.Civ.P. 23(b)(3). “Here, defendants’ computers would be of little
assistance in determining damages. One cannot even tell from the computerized data of any of the
defendants how much women’s clothing any customer purchased during most of the relevant period. Only
a manual examination of customer records could establish whether customer X ever bought women’s
clothing, or that customer Y bought a particular style dress at a particular price, or that customer
Z bought a coat but returned it. Only a manual comparison between the sales records and vendors’
invoices would establish whether merchandise was priced in accordance with a markup list or by some
other means. Without repeating the painstaking processes necessary to assess individual damages,
suffice it to say that hundreds of thousands of customers, and millions of documents, are involved,
and that these processes are estimated to consume hundreds of man years and millions of dollars of
cost.” Defendants’ Memorandum in Opposition to Motions for Class Certification, at 19-20 (footnote
and citations to affidavits omitted). The plaintiffs do not contend that damages in this case can be
determined conveniently or inexpensively. Rather, they urge that a class action is superior to other
methods of dispute resolution, notwithstanding the complexities of determining damages, because no
“other available methods for the fair and efficient adjudication of the controversy” exist.
Fed.R.Civ.P. 23(b)(3). I conclude that a class action is superior to other methods — indeed, “in
view of the small amount of individual recovery and the many class members it may be the only
possible way in which potentially aggrieved persons may recover.” Dennis v. Saks & Co., supra, at
66,750. The manageability problems emphasized by the defendants will, in all likelihood, be confined
to the damages phase of this case; moreover, although that phase may be complicated and time-
consuming, I do not anticipate that it will be unmanageable.


