**gold_text:**
Arch Trading also claims, relying on its other § 1001 arguments, that the determination that Arch
Trading’s misrepresentation was material was tainted by inadequate instructions to the jury on the
question of materiality. In the context of § 1001, however, we have consistently held that
“materiality is a question of law to be determined by the trial judge.” See Norris, 749 F.2d at
1121; accord Nilson Van & Storage Co. v. Marsh, 755 F.2d 362, 367 (4th Cir.1985); United States v.
Ivey, 322 F.2d 523, 529 (4th Cir.), cert. denied, 375 U.S. 953, 84 S.Ct. 444, 11 L.Ed.2d 313 (1963).
There was, therefore, no reversible error in failing to clarify that issue for the jury.

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
In considering Arch Trading's challenge under 18 U.S.C. § 1001, the court must note two pertinent
cases: United States v. Norris, 749 F.2d 1116 (4 Cir. 1984) and Sinclair v. United States, 279 U.S.
263 (1929). As established in Norris and echoed in reference case 755 F.2d 362, materiality in the
scope of § 1001 is a question of law to be determined by the trial judge. Furthermore, it has been
affirmed that there is no requirement for the false statement to actually influence the decision-
making process of the agency (Norris, 749 F.2d at 1121; ref: 755 F.2d 362), supporting that the
false statement's capability to influence is sufficient.  Additionally, addressing the contention
that materiality should be a question of fact for the jury, it is well-established by precedent,
including Sinclair and reference case 322 F.2d 523, that materiality is indeed a matter of law.
Therefore, the court properly instructed the jury on this point, consistent with existing legal
standards. Given these considerations, the conviction under § 1001 was appropriate and supported by
substantial case law.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
 Arch Trading challenges its conviction under 18 U.S.C. § 371, alleging that the conspiracy charge
was defective and that the government's choice of invoking the "offense" clause rather than the
"defraud" clause was improper. However, the court finds that the evidence would have supported
conviction under either clause, and the government's discretion in choosing the "offense" clause was
appropriate.  Arch Trading also contends that its conviction under the IEEPA is invalid due to the
delegation of authority to the President to define criminal conduct. However, the court finds that
the IEEPA meets the standard of constraint applied in Touby v. United States, as it defines the
specific circumstances in which the President may act and limits his authority to meeting a foreign
threat to the national security, foreign policy, or economy of the United States.  The court further
finds that the executive orders and implementing regulations, including Part 575 of Title 31 of the
Code of Federal Regulations, are not void for vagueness, as they define the prohibited conduct with
sufficient definiteness that an ordinary person could understand what conduct was prohibited.
Finally, Arch Trading challenges its conviction under 18 U.S.C. § 1001, alleging that its
misrepresentation to the Treasury Department's OFAC did not influence any governmental decision and
that the OFAC did not have jurisdiction to issue a license. However, the court finds that the false
statement was material to a matter within the jurisdiction of the agency, and that the prompting of
official action is not an element of a § 1001 offense.  In conclusion, the court affirms Arch
Trading's conviction under 18 U.S.C. § 371, the IEEPA, and 18 U.S.C. § 1001, citing the following
reference cases: 755 F.2d 362, 322 F.2d 523, and Touby v. United States, 111 S.Ct. 1752.


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['755 F.2d 362', '322 F.2d 523']

***short_citations_0:*** 755 F.2d 362

court, in a written opinion, advanced a different explanation of why the new trial was granted. This time the district court ruled that “fraudulent intent is a necessary element under 18 U.S.C. § 1001 [and] that the jury was not adequately instructed that fraudulent intent was an essential element which the government was required to prove.” The district court commented on its observation that the instruction was not given in proper “sequential fashion” by saying that it had instructed the jury as to fraudulent intent with respect to the charge of mail fraud but that this aspect of its instructions could not compensate for its omission to give a similar charge with respect to the charge of false statements, since “the jury may not have understood the necessary intent required for conviction [of false statements].” Finally, the district court assigned as a reason for granting the new trial its instruction to the jury that the statement made by Nilson was material. Our very recent decision in United States v. Norris, 749 F.2d 1116 (4 Cir. 1984) decides, if indeed the law in this circuit was not settled, both that (1) “[t]here is no requirement that the false statement influence or effect the decision making process of a department of the United States government,” 749 F.2d at 1121, so that fraudulent intent is not a necessary element of the crime, and (2) “[mjateriality is a question of law to be determined by the trial judge,” 749 F.2d at 1122. It therefore

***short_citations_1:*** 322 F.2d 523

would be a material fact within the meaning of the Indictment and the Statute under which it is drawn.” Defendants excepted to this part of the charge, contending that “materiality” was a question of fact for the jury, rather than a question of law for the court. In their brief, counsel for defendants renew this contention, although they admit that, by the weight of authority, the question of materiality is a question of law. We hold that the question of materiality was a question of law in this case, and that the court’s charge was proper. Sinclair v. United States, 279 U.S. 263, 298, 49 S.Ct. 268, 73 L.Ed. 692; Weinstock v. United States, 97 U.S.App.D.C. 365, 231 F.2d 699, 701; United States v. Clancy (7 Cir.), 276 F.2d 617, 635. Additionally, defendants here contend; that the proof is insufficient to establish materiality. With this contention we disagree. It seems so obvious that the-honest and accurate use of the quota card is such an important and material factor in the administration of the flue-cured tobacco marketing program as to hardly require demonstration. The record of tobacco sales from a farm for one year, is an important factor in the allotment, of acreage for the ensuing year. Tobacco allotments are of acreage, and; not of pounds of tobacco. This is necessarily so, because no one can foretell how? many pounds of tobacco a given acreage will produce in a given year. The accurate use of the quota card is essential to

**prev_text:**
OPINION NIEMEYER, Circuit Judge: On August 2, 1990, Iraq invaded Kuwait. On that same day President
Bush invoked the emergency powers provided to him by Congress and issued executive orders
prohibiting United States persons from, among other things, traveling to Iraq and dealing with the
government of Iraq and its agents. In the present appeal, Arch Trading Company, Inc., a Virginia
corporation, challenges its convictions for various crimes arising from violations of these
prohibitions. The company was convicted of conspiring to commit an offense against the United
States, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 371; of disobeying the emergency executive orders, in violation
of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA), 50 U.S.C. § 1701 et seq., and of lying
to the Department of Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) about its conduct, in
violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1001. It was sentenced to a fine of $50,000. Arch Trading contends
principally that (1) the indictment charging it with conspiracy to commit an offense under § 371 was
defective because in the circumstances the company could only have been charged with conspiracy to
defraud; and (2) the IEEPA (under which the President issued the executive orders) impermissibly
delegated to the Executive Branch legislative authority to create crimes, is unconstitutionally
vague, and was applied to Arch Trading ex post facto because implementing regulations were published
only after the illegal conduct occurred. Arch Trading also challenges a search and seizure related
to these convictions and the applicability of 18 U.S.C. § 1001, the statute prohibiting lying to an
agency of the United States. After carefully considering each of Arch Trading’s arguments, we
affirm. I In November 1988 Arch Trading entered into a $1.9 million contract with Agricultural
Supplies Company, a “quasi-governmental body owned by the government of Iraq” (Agricultural of
Iraq), to ship to Iraq and install there laboratory equipment, including a “virology fermenter” and
a “bacteriology machine,” purportedly for veterinary use. Payment by Agricultural of Iraq to Arch
Trading was assured by a $2 million irrevocable letter of credit issued by Rafidain Bank of Iraq and
performance by Arch Trading was guaranteed by a letter of credit issued by the Commercial Bank of
Kuwait. To secure that letter of credit, Arch Trading was required to deposit $200,000 with the
Kuwaiti bank. From April 1990 through July 1990 Arch Trading acquired the equipment and related
chemicals and arranged for their delivery to Iraq. By early August 1990, five of a planned six
shipments had arrived in Iraq, but none had been installed. The sixth shipment, which was never
actually delivered, was en route. On August 2, 1990, when Iraq invaded Kuwait, President Bush,
invoking the powers given him under the IEEPA, issued Executive Order No. 12722, 55 Fed.Reg. 31,803
(1990), prohibiting United States persons from, among other things, exporting goods, technology, or
services to Iraq; performing any contract in support of an industrial, commercial or governmental
project in Iraq; and engaging in any transaction related to travel to Iraq by United States persons.
At Arch Trading’s request, that same day the Treasury Department’s OFAC faxed a copy of the
Executive Order to Arch Trading’s offices. A week later the President issued a slightly more
detailed order, Executive Order No. 12724, 55 Fed.Reg. 33,089 (1990). Both executive orders were
formally implemented through regulations published in the Code of Federal Regulations, 31 C.F.R.,
Pt. 575. Notwithstanding the prohibitions of the first executive order, two executives of Arch
Trading immediately attempted to enter Iraq via Cyprus to install the laboratory equipment that had
already been delivered. When that effort failed, Arch Trading retained a Jordanian firm, Biomedical
Technologies, Inc., to perform the installation. One of the Arch Trading executives who had earlier
attempted to enter Iraq later joined Biomedical employees in Baghdad to help coordinate the
installation, which was accomplished between October 24 and November 2, 1990. The travel expenses of
both the Arch Trading executive and the Biomedical Technologies employees were reimbursed by Arch
Trading, on authority of its president, Kamal Sadder, and upon completion of the installation,
Biomedical Technologies was paid a bonus. Arch Trading then sought to recover the $200,000 which had
been deposited with the Kuwaiti bank to secure the letter of credit guaranteeing contractual
performance, submitting backdated documents which falsely represented that contractual performance
was completed on July 24, 1990, before the embargo of August 2 was imposed. Arch Trading also asked
Biomedical Technologies to backdate its confirmation of performance. The Kuwaiti bank nevertheless
denied the request for return of the funds “until [Arch Trading] obtained] a license from the Office
of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury (OFAC).” To obtain the license, Arch
Trading wrote a letter, dated April 3, 1991, to the Treasury Department’s OFAC explaining the
company’s position. The letter stated: “We have performed our contract prior to August 2d, 1991
[1990], and stopped any contact with Iraq in conformity with the presidential executive [order].”
Noting that the Kuwaiti bank said it required a license before the $200,000 deposit could be
released, the letter concluded, “At this time we would like your office to inform us if such license
is necessary for the release of our funds. If so, kindly issue us this license at the earliest
possible time.” (Emphasis added). The OFAC replied by letter, erroneously advising Arch Trading that
no license was required. Arch Trading’s dealings with Iraq ultimately came to the attention of the
United States Customs Service during an investigation into a shipment unrelated to this ease. In
late July 1990, customs agents discovered a personal computer at Dulles International Airport in
Washington, D.C., that Arch Trading was shipping to Baghdad, Iraq, without proper documentation.
During the course of the investigation the government questioned Arch Trading executives and
subsequently executed a search warrant which led to the indictment and conviction in this case. This
appeal followed. II Arch Trading first contends that it was improperly charged under 18 U.S.C. §
371. That section criminalizes conspiracies of two sorts: conspiracies to commit an offense against
the United States and conspiracies to defraud the United States. Arch Trading was charged with, and
convicted of, conspiring to commit an “offense” against the United States government. It asserts,
however, it could only have been charged, if at all, with having conspired to “defraud” the United
States, because violations of executive orders and regulations do not constitute an “offense.” Arch
Trading argues that the conspiracy count must therefore be dismissed, relying on United States v.
Minarik, 875 F.2d 1186, 1193-94 (6th Cir.1989). We reject this argument because we do not agree that
violation of an executive order cannot constitute an offense as that term is used in 18 U.S.C. §
371. While it may be that executive orders cannot alone establish crimes, when such orders are duly
authorized by an act of Congress and Congress specifies a criminal sanction for their violation, the
consequence is different. In this case the IEEPA authorized the President to issue executive orders
proscribing conduct, and 50 U.S.C. § 1705(b) makes criminal the disobedience of an order issued
under the Act. There is no question that violation of a federal criminal statute may properly be
charged under the “offense” clause. See United States v. Feola, 420 U.S. 671, 687, 95 S.Ct. 1255,
1265, 43 L.Ed.2d 541 (1975). We therefore hold that when Congress provides criminal sanctions for
violations of executive orders that it empowers the President to issue, such violation constitutes
an “offense” for the purposes of 18 U.S.C. § 371. While Arch Trading’s conduct could arguably have
been charged also as a conspiracy “to defraud,” the two prongs of §371 are not mutually exclusive.
Because of the broad interpretation which has been given the “defraud” clause, § 371’s two clauses
overlap considerably. The wide breadth of the “defraud” clause has long been established: To
conspire to defraud the United States means to cheat the government out of property or money, but it
also means to interfere with or obstruct one of its lawful functions by deceit, craft or trickery,
or at least by means that are dishonest. It is not necessary that the government shall be subjected
to property or pecuniary loss by the fraud, but only that its legitimate official actions and
purpose shall be defeated by misrepresentation, chicane, or the overreaching of those charged with
carrying out the governmental intention. Hammerschmidt v. United States, 265 U.S. 182, 188, 44 S.Ct.
511, 512, 68 L.Ed. 968 (1924). Because of this overlap, given conduct may be proscribed by both of
the section’s clauses. In such a situation, the fact that a particular course of conduct is
chargeable under one clause does not render it immune from prosecution under the other. When both
prongs of § 371 apply to the conduct with which a particular defendant is charged, the government
enjoys considerable latitude in deciding how to proceed. See United States v. Jones, 976 F.2d 176,
183 (4th Cir.1992) (“[Fjaced with two equally applicable penal statutes, there is nothing wrong with
the government’s decision [absent an improper purpose] to prosecute under one and not the other”).
Convictions under the “defraud” clause for conspiracies to commit particular offenses are commonly
upheld. See, e.g., Dennis v. United States, 384 U.S. 855, 862-64, 86 S.Ct. 1840, 1845-46, 16 L.Ed.2d
973 (1966); United States v. Mohney, 949 F.2d 899, 902-03 (6th Cir.1991); United States v. Sans, 731
F.2d 1521, 1533-34 (11th Cir.1984), cert. denied, 469 U.S. 1111, 105 S.Ct. 791, 83 L.Ed.2d 785
(1985). Conversely, convictions under the “offense” clause for conspiracy to engage in conduct which
would defraud the United States are also proper. See Minarik, 875 F.2d at 1193-96. Many courts have
even found it permissible to list both prongs of § 371 in a single indictment count rather than
specifying whether the alleged conspiracy was one to defraud or one to commit an offense. See, e.g.,
United States v. Bilzerian, 926 F.2d 1285, 1301-02 (2d Cir.), cert. denied, — U.S. -, 112 S.Ct. 63,
116 L.Ed.2d 39 (1991); United States v. Smith, 891 F.2d 703, 711-13 (9th Cir.1989), amended 906 F.2d
385 (1990), cert. denied, 498 U.S. 811, 111 S.Ct. 47, 112 L.Ed.2d 23 (1990); May v. United States,
175 F.2d 994 (D.C.Cir.), cert. denied, 338 U.S. 830, 70 S.Ct. 58, 94 L.Ed. 505 (1949); United States
v. Berlin, 707 F.Supp. 832 (E.D.Va.1989). But see United States v. Haga, 821 F.2d 1036 (5th
Cir.1987) (holding indictment count may charge violation of either prong of § 371 but not both). The
case upon which Arch Trading primarily relies, United States v. Minarik, is in no way inconsistent
with our conclusions. In Minarik, the Sixth Circuit found that the prosecution had “used the defraud
clause in a way that created great confusion about the conduct claimed to be illegal.” Minarik, 875
F.2d at 1196. In light of the prejudice to the defendant that resulted from the confusion in that
case, the Sixth Circuit reversed the defendant’s conviction. Id. at 1186, 1193-96. As that court has
since stressed, however, Minarik did not hold that the two clauses of § 371 are mutually exclusive,
but only that in the case then before the court confusion prejudicial to the defendant had arisen
from the government’s choice of proceeding under the “defraud” clause. See Mohney, 949 F.2d at
902-03; cf. Bridges v. United States, 346 U.S. 209, 223-34, 73 S.Ct. 1055, 1063, 97 L.Ed. 1557
(1953) (government may not invoke “defraud” clause in order to evade time bar applicable under
“offense” clause). In cases such as the present one, however, where the defense will not be unfairly
burdened by invocation of either clause, the prosecution may frame the indictment at its discretion.
In short, the evidence in this case against Arch Trading would have supported conviction under
either the “offense” or the “defraud” clause, and absent an improper motive, which is not alleged
here, the government’s choice of invoking the offense clause was an appropriate exercise of
discretion. Ill Arch Trading next challenges its conviction for violating the IEEPA, contending that
(1) the IEEPA impermissibly delegates to the executive branch legislative authority to create
crimes, by authorizing the President to define criminal conduct by executive order, cf. U.S. Const,
art. I, § 1 (vesting legislative power in Congress); (2) its conviction rests upon executive orders
which were inconsistent and therefore void for vagueness; and (3) enforcement of regulations adopted
after Arch Trading’s conduct occurred violates the Ex Post Fac-to Clause, see U.S. Const, art. I, §
9, cl. 3. While it is recognized that an unconstrained delegation by Congress of authority to define
criminal conduct would run afoul of the constitutionally-based nondele-gation doctrine, see
Mistretta v. United States, 488 U.S. 361, 371-74, 109 S.Ct. 647, 654-55, 102 L.Ed.2d 714 (1989), a
challenge to a specific Congressional grant of authority to define only the details of criminal
conduct presents a more complex question. In the context of the IEEPA, the Supreme Court has upheld
Congress’ delegation to the President of civil authority to nullify certain attachments and
transfers of assets. See Dames & Moore v. Regan, 453 U.S. 654, 675, 101 S.Ct. 2972, 2984, 69 L.Ed.2d
918 (1981). Arch Trading contends, however, that the IEEPA’s delegation of the power to define
criminal conduct is inherently different from, and more suspect than, the Act’s civil provisions.
The Supreme Court most recently articulated the limits of a lawful delegation of the power to define
criminal conduct in Touby v. United States, — U.S.-, 111 S.Ct. 1752, 114 L.Ed.2d 219 (1991).
Upholding the delegation of authority to the Attorney General to specify the particular substances,
possession of which violate the criminal law, the Court stated: So long as Congress “lay[s] down by
legislative act an intelligible principle to which the person or body authorized to [act] is
directed to conform, such legislative action is not a forbidden delegation of legislative power.”
... Petitioners suggest, however, that something more than an “intelligible principle” is required
when Congress authorizes another Branch to promulgate regulations that contemplate criminal
sanctions. They contend that regulations of this sort pose a heightened risk to individual liberty
and that Congress must therefore provide more specific guidance. Our cases are not entirely clear as
to whether or not more specific guidance is in fact required. We need not resolve that issue today.
We conclude that § 201(h) passes muster even if greater congressional specificity is required in the
criminal context. Id. at-, 111 S.Ct. at 1756. In Touby, the factor which marked the statute as
unquestionably constitutional was that it “meaningfully constrained] the Attorney General’s
discretion to define criminal conduct.” Id. It did so by (1) specifying that scheduling the
substance in question must be determined to be “necessary to avoid an imminent hazard to the public
safety” before the Attorney General could take action; (2) specifying the factors that go into such
a determination; (3) requiring published 30-day notice of the proposed scheduling and consideration
of any comments from the Secretary of Health and Human Services; and (4) requiring that certain
findings be made as to the effects of the substance in question (e.g., for adding a substance to
schedule I, that the substance had no medical value and had a high potential for being abused). Id.
at -, 111 S.Ct. at 1756-57. Similar constraining factors are present here. The IEEPA, which was
drawn from and constitutes an extension to the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917, 50 U.S.C.App. §
1, et seq., defines the specific circumstances in which the President may act and to what extent.
The President’s authority is limited to meeting a foreign threat “to the national security, foreign
policy or economy of the United States,” that is “unusual and extraordinary,” and only then if he is
able to declare the threat a “national emergency” under the National Emergencies Act, 50 U.S.C. §
1601, et seq. See 50 U.S.C. § 1701. He is required to consult with Congress before, if possible,
exercising the powers conferred, to explain his acts in specified respects, and to report regularly
thereafter during the period of the emergency. See 50 U.S.C. § 1703. The powers granted to the
President are explicitly defined and circumscribed. See 50 U.S.C. § 1702. Moreover, the Act protects
the conduct of any person whose violation of the President’s order can be shown to be “in good
faith.” 50 U.S.C. § 1702(a)(3). Combined with the two factors relied upon in Dames & Moore—the
President’s special powers to make determinations regarding foreign policy and Congressional
acceptance of the President’s actions— these provisions of the IEEPA limiting the President’s
authority to define criminal conduct firmly establish that the Act meets the standard of constraint
applied in Tou-by. Because the IEEPA meets this standard, we need not decide the unsettled question
of whether delegation of the authority to define criminalized conduct must be held to a higher
standard than delegation of civil authority. Arch Trading also contends that the standard for
violation of the sanctions against Iraq changed as the second executive order and the regulations
were issued, and that this purported change made the executive orders and implementing regulations
void for vagueness. It makes special note of the provision of the second executive order (dated
August 9, 1990), that it superseded the first to the extent that the two were “incompatible.” Even a
cursory examination of the two executive orders, however, makes clear that the standard relevant to
judgment of Arch Trading’s acts did not in fact change. The first executive order specified that
United States persons were prohibited from traveling to Iraq, exporting any goods to Iraq, and
performing a contract in support of an industrial, commercial, or governmental project in Iraq. The
second order prohibited the same conduct. While it did provide greater detail, that detail is not
material to Arch Trading’s conduct. Further, what was prohibited was laid out at such a level of
detail in the original Executive Order, of which Arch Trading had actual (not just constructive)
notice, that Arch Trading was undoubtedly aware of the illegality of its actions. This awareness is
confirmed by its considered efforts to circumvent the order’s prohibitions and to conceal its
actions: Arch Trading attempted to send representatives to Iraq via Cyprus after receiving notice of
the prohibition; it backdated financial documentation and requested a Jordanian subcontractor to do
the same; and it falsely represented to the Department of the Treasury that it had performed its
contract before August 2, 1990, and had as of that date “stopped any contact with Iraq.” The
executive orders that Arch Trading violated were written in a manner that did not encourage
arbitrary and discriminatory enforcement, and they defined the prohibited conduct with sufficient
definiteness that an ordinary person could—and in this case did—understand what conduct was
prohibited. They were, therefore, not void for vagueness. See Kolender v. Lawson, 461 U.S. 352, 357,
103 S.Ct. 1855, 1858, 75 L.Ed.2d 903 (1983). Arch Trading contends finally that the criminal
sanctions for violating the IEEPA are unenforceable under the Ex Post Facto Clause because
regulations implementing the executive orders allegedly were adopted after the prohibited conduct
took place. See Part 575 of Title 31 of the Code of Federal Regulations. This argument fails because
Arch Trading’s conviction did not result from violation of those regulations. While the indictment
against Arch Trading mentions the regulations promulgated to enforce Executive Orders No. 12722 and
No. 12724, as well as the executive orders themselves, the regulations in question are, in all
relevant respects, indistinguishable from the executive orders they supplement. Arch Trading was not
charged with any action that would have violated the regulations but not the underlying executive
orders. It cannot, therefore, have been prejudiced by the indictment’s allusion to the regulations.
IV Arch Trading also challenges its ■ conviction under 18 U.S.C. § 1001 for making a false statement
to the Treasury Department’s OFAC when applying for a license for release of the $200,000 deposit at
the Kuwaiti bank. It contends that its misrepresentation did not influence any governmental decision
because the OFAC’s only response was to state that no license was necessary. Moreover, Arch Trading
contends that the OFAC did not have jurisdiction to issue a license, rendering § 1001 inapplicable
to any application for the license. Section 1001 reads: Whoever, in any matter within the
jurisdiction of any department or agency of the United States knowingly or willfully ... makes any
false, fictitious or fraudulent statements or representations, or makes or uses any false writing or
document knowing the same to contain any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry, shall
be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than five years, or both. To establish a
violation of § 1001, it must be proved that (1) the defendant made a false statement to a
governmental agency or concealed a fact from it or used a false document knowing it to be false, (2)
the defendant acted “knowingly or willfully,” and (3) the false statement or concealed fact was
material to a matter within the jurisdiction of the agency. See United States v. Seay, 718 F.2d
1279, 1284 (4th Cir.1983), cert. denied, 467 U.S. 1226, 104 S.Ct. 2677, 81 L.Ed.2d 873 (1984). A
material fact about a matter within the jurisdiction of the agency is one that has a “natural
tendency to influence agency action or is capable of influencing agency action.” United States v.
Norris, 749 F.2d 1116, 1122 (4th Cir.1984), cert. denied, 471 U.S. 1065, 105 S.Ct. 2139, 85 L.Ed.2d
496 (1985). While it may be a fact that Arch Trading’s misrepresentations did not prompt any
official action, the prompting of such action is not an element of a § 1001 offense. As we have
stated previously, “[Tjhere is no requirement that the false statement [actually] influence or
effect the decision making process of a department of the United States government.” Norris, 749
F.2d at 1121.- Moreover, the OFAC’s determination that a license was not necessary turned out to be
erroneous. Because the Iraqi government had a contingent interest in the Kuwaiti bank’s letter of
credit, which the $200,000 deposit secured, it was necessary for Arch Trading to obtain a license to
have that deposit released. This licensing requirement continued through April 1991, when the
misrepresentation was made. See 31 C.F.R. § 575.201.


