**gold_text:**
. Our concurring colleague reads the Order to suggest that "the 911 requirement would be justified
even if VoIP providers could not feasibly meet the 120-day deadline.” Concurring Op. at 310-11. But
he quotes no language in the Order stating that, and we find none suggesting that. The Order makes
reference to the Commission's statutory duty to consider safety, a factor that is an important
element in our analysis, but we do not think these references can support the suggestion that the
Commission has ever justified the 120-day deadline on the basis of any authority to ban VoIP service
outright. We note that if such authority exists, the Commission has not clearly relied on it in its
briefs or at oral argument. In fact, when asked to clarify whether the deadline was appropriate even
if it was not feasible, counsel for the Commission replied, "No. No, Your Honor. The Commission
believed that the deadline was aggressive, but that it was something that could be met, and it
recognized the need to try to force these parties to get going, to get moving,” Transcript of Oral
Argument at 19, Nuvio Corp. v. FCC, No. 05-1248 (D.C.Cir. Sep.12, 2006). Because we "cannot sustain
[the Commission's] action on some other basis the [Commission] did not mention,” Point Park Univ. v.
NLRB, 457 F.3d 42, 50 (D.C.Cir. 2006) (citing SEC v. Chenery Corp., 332 U.S. 194, 196-97, 67 S.Ct.
1575, 91 L.Ed. 1995 (1947)), we need not consider whether safety concerns alone would justify the
deadline.

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
In reviewing the petitioners' challenge, we must adhere to the Administrative Procedure Act's (APA)
mandates, which prohibit decisions that are "arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or
otherwise not in accordance with law" (5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A)). Here, the petitioners argue that the
FCC failed to articulate an adequate basis for the Order, deviating without explanation from
previous practices. However, as noted in *SEC v. Chenery Corp.*, 332 U.S. 194, the Court’s role is
not to guess the agency's theory but to review the stated rationale.  We find that the FCC provided
a reasoned analysis balancing technological limitations against the urgent need for public safety,
consistent with statutory responsibilities to promote effective 911 access. Drawing on *NLRB v.
Metro. Life Ins. Co.*, 457 F.3d 42, it is evident that the agency considered substantial evidence
and the specific challenges posed by VoIP services.  Given this balance, and our duty not to replace
the agency’s judgment with our own where it has sufficiently explained its decision, the FCC's
action stands. Hence, the petition for review is denied.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
 The FCC's Order requires all IVPs to provide E911 access within 120 days, which has been challenged
by petitioners. Under the Administrative Procedure Act, petitioners must show that the Order is
"arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law" (5 U.S.C. §
706(2)(A)). Petitioners argue that the Commission disregarded record evidence that the 120-day
deadline was not feasible, but the Commission relied on record evidence that the nation's largest
interconnected VoIP provider had already procured a technical solution to meet the deadline (Order,
20 F.C.C.R. at 10267 ¶ 38).  The Commission also considered the unique technological challenges of
nomadic VoIP and determined that IVPs must provide only the registered location of the nomadic VoIP
user making a 911 call (id. at 10271 ¶ 46). Petitioners argue that the Commission failed to consider
the economic cost of implementing the Order's 120-day deadline, but the Commission weighed public
safety against economic cost and found that the threat to public safety if it delayed further was
too great (id. at 10266-67 ¶ 37).  Petitioners also argue that the Order's 120-day deadline
represents an unexplained departure from long-standing precedent, but the Commission provided a
reasoned explanation for adopting a different approach and distinguished its prior cases from the
present controversy (Order, 20 F.C.C.R. at 10274 ¶ 53).  In conclusion, the petition for review is
denied. The FCC's Order is not arbitrary or capricious and is in accordance with law. The Commission
has reasonably determined that nomadic, non-native VoIP E911 access is technologically feasible, and
the 120-day deadline is a reasonable time frame to implement the Order's requirements. The
Commission has also provided a reasoned explanation for adopting a different approach and weighing
public safety against economic cost. Nuvio Corporation; Lightyear Network Solutions, LLC; Primus
Telecommunications, Inc.; Lingo, Inc.; and i2 Telecom International, Inc. (collectively
"petitioners”) have all petitioned for review. (457 F.3d 42, 332 U.S. 194)


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-finetuned:***
  . This is the standard of review under the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), 5 U.S.C. §
706(2)(A), which is applicable to our review of the Order, see 5 U.S.C. § 701 et seq. See also NLRB
v. Metro. Life Ins. Co., 457 F.3d 42, 45 (D.C.Cir.2006); Chenery Corp., 332 U.S. at 194, 67 S.Ct.
1575. The APA's standard of review is more deferential than the standard of review for agency
actions under the APA that are not subject to judicial review, see 5 U.S.C. § 701(a), and is more
deferential than the standard of review for agency actions that are subject to judicial review, see
5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A). See, e.g., id. at 196, 67 S.Ct. 1575. The APA's standard of review is also
more deferential than the standard of review for agency actions that are not subject to judicial
review, see 5 U.S.C. § 701(a), and is more deferential than the standard of review for agency
actions that are subject to judicial review, see 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A). See, e.g., id. at 196, 67
S.Ct. 1575. The APA's standard of review is also more deferential than the standard of review for
agency actions that are not subject to judicial review, see 5 U.S.C. § 701(a), and is more
deferential than the standard of review for agency actions that are subject to judicial review, see
5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A). See, e.g., id. at 196, 67 S.Ct. 1575. The APA's standard of review is also
more deferential than the standard of review for agency actions that are not subject to judicial
review, see 5 U.S.C. § 701(a), and is more deferential than the standard of review for agency
actions that are subject to judicial review, see 5 U.S.C. § 706(2)(A). See, e.g., id. at 196, 67
S.Ct. 1575. The APA's standard of review is also more deferential than the standard of review for
agency actions that are not subject to judicial


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['457 F.3d 42', '332 U.S. 194']

***short_citations_0:*** 457 F.3d 42

basis of its order’ and ‘give clear indication that it has exercised the discretion with which Congress has empowered it.’ ” NLRB v. Metro. Life Ins. Co., 380 U.S. 438, 443, 85 S.Ct. 1061, 13 L.Ed.2d 951 (1965) (citation omitted). We are, however, “indulgent toward administrative action to the extent of affirming an order where the agency’s path can be ‘discerned’ even if the opinion ‘leaves much to be desired.’ ” WAIT Radio v. FCC, 418 F.2d 1153, 1156 (D.C.Cir.1969) (citation omitted); see also Casino Airlines, Inc. v. NTSB, 439 F.3d 715, 717 (D.C.Cir.2006). Without a clear presentation of the Board’s reasoning, it is not possible for us to perform our assigned reviewing function and to discern the path taken by the Board in reaching its decision. See Metro. Life Ins. Co., 380 U.S. at 443, 85 S.Ct. 1061. Nor can our Court fill in critical gaps in the Board’s reasoning. We can only look to the Board’s stated rationale. We cannot sustain its action on some other basis the Board did not mention. See SEC v. Chenery Corp., 332 U.S. 194, 196-97, 200, 67 S.Ct. 1575, 91 L.Ed. 1995 (1947) (“It will not do for a court to be compelled to guess at the theory underlying the agency’s action; nor can a court be expected to chisel that which must be precise from what the agency has left vague and indecisive.”) This is not a new concern, but it is central to our performance of the limited role Congress

***short_citations_1:*** 332 U.S. 194

the management’s justification of its motives, the Commission concluded that it was merely trying to “deny that they made selfish use of their powers during the period when their conflict of interest, vis-a-vis public investors, was in existence owing to their purchase program.” Federal’s management had thus placed itself in a position where it was “peculiarly susceptible to temptation to conduct the reorganization for personal gain rather than the public good” and where its desire to make advantageous purchases of stock could have an important influence, even though subconsciously, upon many of the decisions to be made in the course of the reorganization. Accordingly, the Commission felt that all of its general considerations of the problem were applicable to this case. The scope of our review of an administrative order wherein a new principle is announced and applied is no different from that which pertains to ordinary administrative action. The wisdom of the principle adopted is none of our concern. See Board of Trade v. United States, 314 U. S. 534, 548. Our duty is at an end when it becomes evident that the Commission’s action is based upon substantial evidence and is consistent with the authority granted by Congress. See National Broadcasting Co. v. United States, 319 U. S. 190, 224. We are unable to say in this case that the Commission erred in reaching the result it did. The facts being undisputed, we are free to disturb the Commission’s conclusion only if it lacks any rational and statutory

**prev_text:**
Opinion for the Court filed by Circuit Judge GRIFFITH in which Chief Judge GINSBURG joins and
Circuit Judge KAVANAUGH joins with the exception of footnote five. Concurring opinion filed by
Circuit Judge KAVANAUGH. GRIFFITH, Circuit Judge. Petitioners, providers of the newly-emerging
technology of Internet telephone service, challenge an order of the Federal Communications
Commission (“Commission” or “FCC”) that gave them only 120 days to do what is already required of
providers of traditional telephone service: transmit 911 calls to a local emergency authority. We
deny their consolidated petition for review because we conclude that the Commission adequately
considered not only the technical and economic feasibility of the deadline, inquiries made necessary
by the bar against arbitrary and capricious decision-making, but also the public safety objectives
the Commission is required to achieve. I. One of the many dramatic changes the Internet has brought
to telecommunications has been the development of interconnected Voice over Internet Protocol
(“VoIP”) service, which allows a caller using a broadband Internet connection to place calls to and
receive calls from other callers using either VoIP or traditional telephone service. E911
Requirements for IP-Enabled Service Providers, First Report and Order and Notice of Proposed
Rulemaking, 20 F.C.C.R. 10245, 10246 n. 1, 2005 WL 1323217 (2005) (“Order”). From a caller’s
perspective, interconnected VoIP service is, for the most part, similar to traditional telephone
service, and its users reasonably expect it to function the same. But two additional capabilities of
VoIP service undermine those expectations when callers try to use 911 emergency services. VoIP
service allows callers to choose what are called “non-native” area codes. For example, a customer
living in the District of Columbia can use an area code from anywhere in the country. Some
interconnected VoIP providers (“IVPs”) also offer “nomadic” service, which allows a VoIP telephone
call to be made and received from wherever the user can establish a broadband connection. (By
contrast, “fixed” VoIP telephone service can only be used from a dedicated, fixed connection —
typically in a home or office.) As attractive as these two features may be, each makes it difficult
for IVPs to provide the local callers the 911 emergency service they expect and upon which they
rely. Routers designed to direct 911 calls cannot recognize non-native area codes, and unlike
traditional and wireless telephone service, there are no means yet available to easily determine the
location of a caller using interconnected VoIP service. IVPs, which were not required to do
otherwise, failed to use dedicated trunks (communications paths connecting two switching systems,
used to establish an end-to-end connection) set aside for routing calls to a local emergency call
center (known as a public safety answering point or “PSAP”) and instead routed 911 calls to
administrative lines that had not been designed and were not staffed to handle emergency calls. Id.
at 10246 ¶ 1 n. 2 (documenting various instances in which consumers were unable fi> contact
emergency help after dialing 911 using an interconnected VoIP service). The resulting tragedies gave
rise to the Order at issue. The Commission, which had previously been reluctant to regulate this
nascent industry for fear of hindering its development, see, e.g., IP-Enabled, Services, Notice of
Proposed Rulemaking, 19 F.C.C.R. 4863, 4864 ¶ 1, 2004 WL 439260 (2004) (“Notice of Proposed
Rulemaking ” or “NPRM ”) (noting that IP-enabled services had developed “in an environment that is
free of many of the regulatory obligations applied to traditional telecommunication services”),
decided that an immediate solution was required to “discharge[] the Commission’s statutory
obligation to promote an effective nationwide 911/E911 emergency access system,” Order, 20 F.C.C.R.
at 10266 ¶36. The Commission thus ordered that within 120 days of the effective date of this Order,
an interconnected VoIP provider must transmit all 911 calls, as well as a call back number and the
caller’s “Registered Location” for each call, to the PSAP, designated statewide default answering
point, or appropriate local emergency authority that serves the caller’s Registered Location. Id. ¶
37 (citations omitted). In effect, the Order requires that all IVPs, including those that offer
nomadic service using non-native area codes, ensure that their users are able to reach local
emergency services when making 911 calls. To do so, IVPs must route all 911 calls using the
technology known as Automatic Number Identification (“ANI”) or pseudo-ANI, if necessary. ANI
“identifies the calling party and may be used as a call back number.” 47 C.F.R. § 20.3. A pseudo-ANI
is “[a] number, consisting of the same number of digits as ANI, that is not a North American
Numbering Plan telephone directory number and may be used in place of an ANI to convey special
meaning.” Id. Because local selective routers are not capable of delivering non-native numbers to a
local PSAP, pseudo-ANIs are used to temporarily mask the true number with a local number to
facilitate processing by the local selective router for delivery to the PSAP. See id. The Commission
was less stringent in requiring the use of Automatic Location Information (ALI), which provides an
emergency dispatcher with the geographic location of the caller, because it is not yet
technologically feasible to detect automatically the location of nomadic VoIP callers. The Order
only requires, therefore, that IVPs ensure that 911 calls are routed to the registered and not the
actual location of each 911 caller. See Order, 20 F.C.C.R. at 10271 ¶46. IVPs, however, must provide
a way for consumers to update their registered locations in a timely fashion. See id. These
interconnected IVP 911 calls must also be routed through the Wireline E911 network. See id. at 10269
¶ 40. The Commission did not dictate a specific manner for IVPs to provide E911 access. Instead, the
Commission noted that IVPs could satisfy these requirements by interconnecting directly with the
E911 network through incumbent local exchange carriers (“ILECs”), see id. at 10268 ¶ 39, by
interconnecting indirectly through a third party, see id. at 10267 ¶ 38, or by any other solution
that results in E911 access, see id. Finally, the Order requires that interconnected VoIP providers
notify every customer, new and existing, about “the circumstances under which E911 service may not
be available through the interconnected VoIP service or may be in some way limited by comparison to
traditional E911 service.” Id. at 10272 ¶ 48. II. Under the Administrative Procedure Act, which
governs our review of this challenge, petitioners’ burden is to show that the Order is “arbitrary,
capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law,” see 5 U.S.C. §
706(2)(A). They rely upon three arguments to meet that burden. First, petitioners assert that the
Order’s 120-day deadline for IVPs to provide E911 service to their users of nomadic, non-native VoIP
service is an unexplained departure from the Commission’s precedent made without adequate regard to
economic and technological obstacles. Petitioners also fault the Order for requiring that IVPs
connect to the Wireline E911 network but failing to impose a corresponding duty on ILECs to permit
this connection. Finally, petitioners contend that the Commission did not give adequate notice of
the substance of the Order. We consider these arguments in turn and find each wanting. A. The FCC
decision to require all IVPs — including providers of nomadic, non-native VoIP service — to provide
E911 access within 120 days. Petitioners assert that the Commission disregarded record evidence that
the 120-day deadline was not feasible because there was no demonstrated way to overcome the
technical and practical obstacles to implement E911 for providers of nomadic, non-native VoIP
service. But this argument fails in the face of substantial contrary record evidence that the
nation’s largest interconnected VoIP provider had already procured a technical solution to meet the
deadline. The Commission not ed that Intrado, a third-party competitive local exchange carrier, was
already prepared to offer a technological solution that met the Order’s requirements, even for
providers of nomadic, non-native service. Order, 20 F.C.C.R. at 10267 ¶ 38. At the time the Order
was promulgated and in advance of the 120-day deadline, Intrado was already offering a service that
“enables the delivery of a VoIP subscribers [sic] address and call back number to the most
geographically relevant [PSAP] ..., thereby accommodating the nomadic capability inherent in their
VoIP service.” Ex Parte Letter from M. Boyd, Intrado, to M.H. Dortch, FCC, WC Docket No. 04-36 (Apr.
25, 2005); see also Ex Parte Letter from M. Boyd, Intrado, to M.H. Dortch, FCC, WC Docket No. 04-36
(Apr. 19, 2005). Vonage, the nation’s largest VoIP provider, agreed with Verizon, the ILEC
controlling the Wireline E911 network in its territory, that it would use Intrado’s service “to
deliver both caller’s location and call back number to emergency services personnel for 911 calls
placed throughout Verizon’s [28-state] territory,” and would do so by November 4, before the
November 28, 2005 deadline. Ex Parte Letter from W.B. Wilhelm, Vonage, to K.J. Martin, FCC, WC
Docket No. 04-36 (May 9, 2005). The Commission also relied on IVP trials that demonstrated E911
access was possible for providers of nomadic, nonnative VoIP service. For example, Qwest and Vonage
conducted a test of VoIP E911 access in King County, Washington. This test included both an
experimental means of PSTN access and a messaging component used to deliver the calling party’s
location automatically. Petitioners’ focus on the failed experimental access component ignores the
successful messaging component of the trial that demonstrated VoIP E911 access was in fact possible.
In recounting the results of this trial, Qwest noted that, rather than using this failed
experimental access, an IVP could provide E911 service using a combination of Qwest’s tarriffed
access to the Wireline E911 network and third party support services. Ex Parte Letter from C. O’Con-
nell, Qwest, to M.H. Dortch, FCC, WC Docket No. 04-36 (Apr. 12, 2005). Vonage had also successfully
tested E911 access for nomadic VoIP in Newport, Rhode Island. See Ex Parte Letter from W.B. Wilhelm,
Vonage, to M.H. Dortch, FCC, WC Docket No. 04-36 (May 9, 2005). Petitioners seize upon two elements
of this Newport test to argue that it is an unreliable basis for the Order. First, there is only one
PSAP in small Rhode Island and so this test could not address the critical issue of routing calls to
the wrong PSAP. Second, the state and not an ILEC owns the selective router and so there is no issue
of providing access to the E911 Wire-line network. Petitioners have no doubt identified elements in
this test that provide some grounds to distinguish them from what the Order demands, but the general
success of the Rhode Island test, combined with the substantial deference we owe the FCC’s
predictive judgments, overcomes the petitioners’ objections. See, e.g., Int’l Ladies’ Garment
Workers’ Union v. Donovan, 722 F.2d 795, 821 (D.C.Cir.l983)(“Predictive judgments about areas that
are within the agency’s field of discretion and expertise” are entitled to “particularly
deferential” treatment.); see also Charter Commc’ns, Inc. v. FCC, 460 F.3d 31, 44 (D.C.Cir.2006)
(“That is a predictive judgment that the FCC is entitled to make and to which we defer.”).
Petitioners’ argument that the submission of the National Emergency Number Association (“NENA”)
undermines the Commission’s conclusion that the 120-day deadline was reasonable also fails to
account for the deference we give to an agency’s predictive judgments. NENA opined that “the bulk of
national access to [E911]” could be reached within 120 days, but noted that “[f]ull national access”
could take “another 4-6 months.” Ex Parte Letter from J.R. Hobson, NENA, to M. Dortch, FCC, WC
Docket No. 04-36 (May 11, 2005) (emphasis added). The Commission was acting well within its
authority to use its expertise to make predictive judgments when it concluded that if the “bulk of
national access” could be achieved within 120 days, it was reasonable' to use that time period. We
must also address the petitioners’ claim that the Commission erred by failing to distinguish between
the technological obstacles faced by nomadic or non-native VoIP providers and those faced by fixed,
native providers. They allege the Commission based the Order on the technological capabilities
associated with fixed VoIP service and overlooked the unique challenges posed by nomadic, non-native
VoIP service. But the Commission in fact considered the unique technological challenges of nomadic
VoIP, see Order, 20 F.C.C.R. at 10259 ¶ 25 (noting that “certain [nomadic or portable] VoIP services
pose significant E911 implementation challenges”), and taking stock of those challenges, did not
require that IVPs determine the actual location of nomadic VoIP users because it “is not always
technologically feasible for providers of interconnected VoIP service to automatically determine the
location of their end users without end users’ active cooperation,” id. at 10271 ¶46. Instead, the
Commission determined that IVPs must provide only the registered location of the nomadic VoIP user
making a 911 call, see id., and called for comment on the feasibility of automatically determining
the geographic location of nomadic VoIP users, see id. at 10276-77 ¶¶ 56-57. Petitioners’ argument
that the Commission overlooked the economic cost of implementing the Order’s 120-day deadline
highlights that our task under the arbitrary or capricious standard is to determine only whether an
agency’s decision “ ‘was based on a consideration of the relevant factors and whether there has been
a clear error of judgment,’ ” Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Ass’n of U.S., Inc. v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins.
Co., 463 U.S. 29, 43, 103 S.Ct. 2856, 77 L.Ed.2d 443 (1983) (quoting Bowman Transp., Inc. v. Ark-
Best Freight System, Inc., 419 U.S. 281, 285, 95 S.Ct. 438, 42 L.Ed.2d 447 (1974)). Petitioners
overlook a countervailing interest that the Commission must consider and we must respect — the
threat to public safety. When, as is the case with the FCC, Congress has given an agency the
responsibility to regulate a market such as the telecommunications industry that it has repeatedly
deemed important to protecting public safety, the agency’s judgments about the economic cost of its
regulations must take into account its duty to protect the public. The Commission is required to
consider public safety by both its enabling act, see Communications Act of 1934 § 1, 47 U.S.C. § 151
(“so as to make available, so far as possible ... [a] world-wide wire and radio communication
service with adequate facilities at reasonable charges ... for the purpose of promoting safety of
life and property through the use of tvire and radio commionica- tions”) (emphasis added), and the
Wireless Communication and Public Safety Act of 1999 § 3, 47 U.S.C. § 615 (“shall encourage and
support efforts by States to deploy comprehensive end-to-end emergency communications infrastructure
and programs, based on coordinated statewide plans, including seamless, ubiquitous, reliable
wireless telecommunications networks and enhanced wireless 9-1-1 service”). The Commission here
weighed public safety against the economic cost of compliance with the Order and found that,
“[w]hile 120 days is an aggressively short amount of time in which to comply with these
requirements, the threat to public safety if we delay further is too great and demands near
immediate action.” Order, 20 F.C.C.R. at 10266-67 ¶ 37 (emphasis added). Because the Commission has
reasonably determined that nomadic, non-native VoIP E911 access is technologically feasible, any
argument about the time period required for implementation is nothing more than a quarrel over
relative costs and benefits. In this case, the Commission has weighed the cost of an “aggressive”
implementation scheme — a 120-day deadline— against the cost in human lives, and found in favor of
public safety. See id. at 10266 ¶ 36 (“We find that this requirement most appropriately discharges
the Commission’s statutory obligation to promote an effective nationwide 911/E911 emergency access
system by recognizing the needs of the public safety community to get call back and location
information and balancing those needs against existing technological limitations of interconnected
VoIP providers.”); cf. Public Citizen v. Au-chter, 702 F.2d 1150, 1157 (D.C.Cir.1983) (“Delays that
might be altogether reasonable in the sphere of economic regulations are less tolerable when human
lives are at stake.”). We may not disturb its determination where, as here, the Commission has
considered relevant factors and has articulated a reasoned basis for its conclusion. See State Farm,
463 U.S. at 42-43, 103 S.Ct. 2856. When viewed in this light, we cannot agree that the 120-day
deadline is arbitrary or capricious. Petitioners’ final challenge to the 120-day deadline is that it
represents an unexplained departure from long-standing precedent. The precedent, so the argument
goes, was established when the FCC gave more time for wireless and satellite phones and other new
technologies to implement 911 capabilities than the aggressive deadline it has imposed on the new
VoIP telephone service market. Petitioners are right that an agency departing from precedent “must
provide a principled explanation for its change of direction.” Nat’l Black Media Coalition v. FCC,
775 F.2d 342, 355 (D.C.Cir.1985); see also Air-mark Coip. v. FAA, 758 F.2d 685, 692 (D.C.Cir.1985).
But surely different technologies may reasonably bear different regulatory burdens. It is not
apparent to us that the regulation of satellite or wireless phones is clear precedent for the
regulation of information technology service providers. No doubt each involves telephone
communications, but the differences between satellite and wireless phone service on the one hand and
VoIP service on the other are such that the Commission has previously refused to classify IP-enabled
services as telecommunications carriers. We give deference to agency expertise used to distinguish
its prior cases from present controversies. See PPL Montana, LLC v. Surface Transp. Bd., 437 F.3d
1240, 1247 (D.C.Cir.2006) (“[T]he [agency’s] attempt to distinguish its prior cases, while terse, is
entitled to deference.” (quoting Inland Lakes Mgmt., Inc. v. NLRB, 987 F.2d 799, 805
(D.C.Cir.1993))). Even if the Commission’s regulatory approach to these other telecommunications
services provided a precedent for VoIP service, the Commission provided a reasoned explanation for
adopting a different approach by expressly noting that “the record indicates that the network
components that have been developed to make wireless E911 possible can also be used for VoIP E911,
which should make the implementation process simpler and far less expensive than the initial
upgrades necessary for wireless E911.” Order, 20 F.C.C.R. at 10274 ¶ 53; see also Ex Parte Letter
from W.B. Wilhelm, Vonage, to K.J. Martin, FCC, WC Docket No. 04-36 (May 9, 2005) (stating that
Vonage “does not anticipate that it will face the same issues that have made [wireless] E-9-1-1 such
a daunting challenge”). Because petitioners acknowledge that some type of E911 regulation is
necessary, see Petitioners’ Br. at 19, this petition for review is, in essence, a challenge only to
where the FCC has drawn the regulatory “line,” and we have previously and repeatedly given the
Commission “wide discretion to determine where to draw administrative lines.” AT & T Corp. v. FCC,
220 F.3d 607, 627 (D.C.Cir.2000). Based on the record evidence, the demonstrated safety concerns,
and our deference to the Commission’s predictive judgments, we conclude that the Order’s 120-day
deadline was neither arbitrary nor capricious. B. The FCC requirement for TVP connectivity to the
Wireline E911 network without a corresponding obligation on ILECs. The Order requires IVPs to
utilize the Wireline E911 network generally owned by the ILECs, but it failed to impose a duty on
ILECs to provide that access. Petitioners argue that this different treatment of the ILECS was
error. We find no error for the simple reason that the record contained evidence that major ILECs
were cooperating with nomadic IVPs and “increasingly offering E911 solutions that allow VoIP
providers to interconnect directly to the Wireline E911 network through tariff, contract, or a
combination thereof.” Order, 20 F.C.C.R. at 10268 ¶ 39. There is record evidence, for example, that
Qwest, BellSouth, and Verizon were cooperating with IVPs to provide access to the Wireline E911
network. See, e.g., Ex Parte Letter from C. O’Connell, Qwest, to M.H. Dortch, FCC, WC Docket No.
04-36 (Apr. 12, 2005); Ex Parte Letter from B.L. Ross, BellSouth, to M.H. Dortch, FCC, WC Docket No.
04-36 (May 12, 2005); Ex Parte Letter from K. Grillo, Verizon, to M.H. Dortch, FCC, WC Docket No.
04-36 (May 11, 2005). Although there is some evidence to suggest that a few ILECs were not always
cooperative, see Petitioners’ Reply Br. at 10 n. 15, there was ample evidence of significant and
increasing ILEC cooperation with IVPs and, in the Commission’s view, that cooperation removed any
need to impose a duty upon ILECs to permit connectivity. That is a judgment we wisely leave alone as
“predictions regarding the actions of regulated entities are precisely the type of policy judgments
that courts routinely and quite correctly leave to administrative agencies,” Public Util. Comm’n of
State of Cal. v. FERC, 24 F.3d 275, 281 (D.C.Cir. 1994). C. The FCC’s notice and comment procedures.
Petitioners’ final argument faults the Commission because the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that led
to the Order lacked proposed rules or even tentative conclusions. The APA requires notice of “either
the terms or substance of the proposed rale or a description of the subjects and issues involved.” 5
U.S.C. § 553(b)(3). “Since the public is generally entitled to submit their views and relevant data
on any proposals, the notice must be sufficient to fairly apprise interested parties of the issues
involved, but it need not specify every precise proposal which [the agency] may ultimately adopt as
a rule.” Action for Children’s Television v. FCC, 564 F.2d 458, 470 (D.C.Cir.1977) (internal
quotation marks and citations omitted). The Commission fairly apprised the parties and the public of
the issues covered by the Order. In our view, the Commission notified the parties of the purpose,
see NPRM, 19 F.C.C.R. at 4900 ¶ 56 (“how best to achieve our policy objectives for ensuring the
availability of 911 and E911 capability”), the extent, see id. (“the effectiveness of alternatives
to direct regulation”), the form, see id. at 4901 ¶ 56 (“technological flexibility so that our rules
allow for the development of new and innovative technologies”), and the time frame, see id. ¶ 57
(“time frame in which we should consider 911 and E911 regulatory issues in the IP context”) of any
potential regulation. The NPRM gave “interested parties a reasonable opportunity ... to present
relevant information” on the central issues. WJG Tel. Co. v. FCC, 675 F.2d 386, 389 (D.C.Cir.1982)
(internal quotation marks and citations omitted). Indeed, many of the parties submitted comments on
all aspects of VoIP access. III. For the foregoing reasons, the petition for review is denied. So
ordered. . Nuvio Corporation; Lightyear Network Solutions, LLC; Primus Telecommunications, Inc.;
Lingo, Inc.; and i2 Telecom International, Inc. (collectively "petitioners”) have all petitioned for
review. .E911 is a more advanced version of the traditional 911 system, which merely routes an
emergency call to the local PSAP, because it provides additional information about the caller: E911
systems route 911 calls through the use of a Selective Router to a geographically appropriate PSAP
based on the caller’s location. E911 also provides the call taker with the caller's call back
number, referred to as Automatic Numbering Information (ANI), and, in many cases, location
information — a capability referred to as Automatic Location Identification (ALI). Order, 20
F.C.C.R. at 10251 ¶ 13 (citations omitted). . This Order became effective on July 29, 2005, see 70
Fed.Reg. 43,323, 43,323 (July 27, 2005) (to be codified at 47 C.F.R. § 9.5), thereby requiring
compliance by November 28, 2005, id. . “The core of the existing wireline E911 network is a
dedicated, redundant, highly reliable wireline network (Wireline E911 Network), which is
interconnected with but largely separate from the PSTN [public switched telephone network].” Order,
20 F.C.C.R. at 10251 ¶ 14. This network is generally implemented and operated by incumbent local
exchange carriers (''ILECs”). Id.


