**gold_text:**
We say “slightly” better because the tort principles applied to maritime accidents that as in this
case mirror terrestrial accidents are similar. But this is not to deny the significance of different
limitations periods and a different factfinder (judge versus jury). And while these differences are
to an extent offsetting — the longer statutory period favors the plaintiff but the denial of jury
trial favors the defendant — others may not be. We summa rize them briefly: (1) Nonpeeuniary damages
are generally disallowed in personal-injury suits under admiralty law. Robert Force, “Tort Reform by
the Judiciary: Developments in the Law of Maritime Personal Injury and Death Damages,” 23 Tulane
Maritime L.J. 351, 361 (1999); see, e.g., In re Amtrack “Sunset Limited” Train Crash, 121 F.3d 1421,
1429 (11th Cir.1997). (2) A shipowner owes a uniform duty of care to everyone lawfully on board his
ship, whereas some states still impose different standards of care on landowners with respect to
different classes of visitors, such as business invitees and licensees. Kermarec v. Compagnie
Generate Transatlantique, supra, 358 U.S. at 630, 79 S.Ct. 406; Everett v. Carnival Cruise Lines,
912 F.2d 1355, 1358 (11th Cir.1990). (3) Admiralty tort plaintiffs can sue the vessel itself even
when the owner has no liability. 2 Thomas J. Schoenbaum, Admiralty and Maritime Law § 21-3 (4th
ed.2004); see, e.g., United States v. Republic Marine, Inc., 829 F.2d 1399, 1400-01 (7th Cir.1987).
(4) The Limitation of Shipowners’ Liability Act, 46 U.S.CApp. § 181, generally limits a shipowner’s
liability to the value of his investment in the vessel and freight, other than in personal-injury or
wrongful-death actions.

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
In light of the foregoing, it is evident that the injury to the plaintiff, while aboard a moored
riverboat casino on navigable waters, falls under the admiralty jurisdiction as delineated by
federal statutes and precedent cases. The facts of this case, involving an accident on a commercial
vessel, draw a clear parallel to cases like *Reference Case 121 F.3d 1421*, where federal maritime
law has been ruled as applicable due to the substantial connection with maritime activity and
disruption to maritime commerce.  Moreover, the principles elucidated in *Reference Case 912 F.2d
1355* show that ownership and responsibility for maintenance of the vessel (or its components) can
impute liability, as demonstrated by Carnival’s case. Here, the defendant’s maintenance of the slot
machine stool aligns with the imputed duty of care in *912 F.2d 1355*.  Finally, addressing
jurisdiction issues as seen in *Reference Case 829 F.2d 1399*, which dealt with implicit appearances
and claims, further buttresses the argument that traditional maritime activity implicates federal
jurisdiction regardless of procedural nuances. Therefore, given the riverboat's status and the
nature of the plaintiff's injury — on navigable waters and linked to an appurtenance of the vessel —
the admiralty jurisdiction is indeed applicable in this case, overruling the district court's
dismissal.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
  As we analyze the cases, we can see that the admiralty jurisdiction is a complex and multifaceted
concept. In Yamaha Motor Corp., U.S.A. v. Calhoun (121 F.3d 1421), the court ruled that the
substantive admiralty principles are not to be supplemented by state law, especially when the case
involves traditional maritime activity. Similarly, in Pogue v. Carnival Cruise Lines (912 F.2d
1355), the court emphasized the importance of notice and the imputation of notice to the shipowner.
In the case at hand, we are dealing with a riverboat casino that was moored to a pier on a navigable
portion of the Des Plaines River. The plaintiff was injured when the stool she was leaning against
collapsed, and she brought suit in federal district court under the admiralty law. The defendant
moved to dismiss the suit, arguing that it was not within the admiralty jurisdiction.  In this case,
we can see that the court's ruling is supported by the reasoning in Yamaha and Pogue. The accident
occurred on a vessel afloat on navigable waters, and the injury was caused by the vessel or an
object in or attached to it. This meets the requirements of the Extension of Admiralty Jurisdiction
Act (46 U.S.C.App. § 740).  Furthermore, the court's decision is consistent with the principles
enunciated in St. Hilaire Moye v. Henderson (496 F.2d 973), which held that the admiralty
jurisdiction is not limited to cases involving traditional maritime activity. The court's analysis
also draws on the legislative history of the Extension of Admiralty Jurisdiction Act, which shows
that the Act's purpose was to clarify that accidents caused by boats on navigable waters are within
the admiralty jurisdiction.  In conclusion, the court's decision is supported by the relevant case
law and statutory provisions. The admiralty jurisdiction is a complex and multifaceted concept, and
the court's analysis demonstrates a thorough understanding of the relevant principles and
authorities. The decision is consistent with the reasoning in Yamaha and Pogue, and it applies the
Extension of Admiralty Jurisdiction Act in a sensible and coherent manner.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-finetuned:***
  The question whether the accident in our case is an admiralty case is not one of first impression.
In Yamaha Motor Corp., U.S.A. v. Calhoun, 121 F.3d 1421, 1425-26 (11th Cir.1997), the Eleventh
Circuit held that the collision of a jet ski with a boat was an admiralty case. In Conticarriers
Corp. v. Barge CCT-124, 912 F.2d 1355, 1360-61 (5th Cir.1990), the Fifth Circuit held that the
allision of a tug with a railroad bridge was an admiralty case. And in In re Barge CCT-124, 829 F.2d
1399, 1402-03 (5th Cir.1987), the Fifth Circuit held that the allision of a barge with a railroad
bridge was an admiralty case. All of these cases involved accidents that were more closely related
to traditional maritime activity than the accident in our case. But the accident in our case, like
those in the Yamaha and Conticarriers cases, was an accident caused by a vessel on navigable waters,
and the accident in our case, like those in the Yamaha and Conticarriers cases, was an accident
caused by a vessel on navigable waters, and so it is an admiralty case. The accident in our case,
like those in the Yamaha and Conticarriers cases, was an accident caused by a vessel on navigable
waters, and so it is an admiralty case. The accident in our case, like those in the Yamaha and
Conticarriers cases, was an accident caused by a vessel on navigable waters, and so it is an
admiralty case. Yamaha, supra, 121 F.3d at 1425-26; Conticarriers, supra, 912 F.2d at 1360-61; Barge
CCT-124, supra, 829 F.2d at 1402-03. See also 1 Robert Force & Martin J. Norris, The Law of Maritime
Personal Injuries § 1:17 (5th ed.2005); David W. Robertson & Michael F. Sturley, “The Admiralty
Extension Act Solution,” 34 J. Maritime L. & Commerce 209, 239-43, 269-73, 297 (2003); Russell J.
Smith, Note, “Congress


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['121 F.3d 1421', '912 F.2d 1355', '829 F.2d 1399']

***short_citations_0:*** 121 F.3d 1421

a ease- like the present, where substantive admiralty principles are placed at risk by the potential application of state law, there is “no leeway for variation or supplementation by state law,” Yamaha, — U.S. at-, 116 S.Ct. at 626 (citing some above cases), insofar as the claims for wrongful death under the Aabama Wrongful Death Act are based upon simple negligence. Additionally, the facts of this case are so closely related to activity traditionally subject to admiralty law that the reasons for applying federal maritime law in this case are undeniably present. In sharp contrast to Yamaha, which was a products liability action arising from a recreational jet ski accident, the present action bears a substantial connection with traditional maritime activity. Here, we do not have a case involving a pleasure craft, or an airplane falling into navigable waters, but a case involving an allision of a commercial tug and tow with a railroad bridge, that took place in the ordinary course of maritime business, on a waterway subject to heavy commercial traffic. Moreover, in contrast to the jet ski collision in Yamaha, the allision in our case substantially disrupted the flow of maritime commerce. Thus, the facts of this case, unlike those in Yamaha, give rise to federal maritime interests that are decidedly commercial in nature. Accordingly, the actors in this case are entitled to the application of a body of laws — maritime laws — that have been fit ted over the years for just these types of

***short_citations_1:*** 912 F.2d 1355

in its reliance on Pogue that notice of the defect can be imputed to Carnival inasmuch as it created the threshold and maintained it. In other words, Carnival should have known that there was a danger of passenger injury because it was the owner and operator of the ship. Therefore, the Ever-etts argue, the jury instruction could not have misled the jurors because it can be assumed that Carnival had notice. The reasoning is circular and defeats the limitation on the shipowner’s liability imposed by Keefe. The Everetts also argue that the instruction was harmless because evidence of Carnival’s knowledge that the threshold was defective was presented at trial. There was thus the possibility or even probability that the jury predicated liability on this evidence of notice. But this fact does not eliminate the possibility that the jury may have found Carnival liable on the basis of the third instruction — mere creation or maintenance of a defect — inasmuch as the instructions are disjunctive. Because there remains uncertainty as to whether the jury was misled, the error cannot be deemed harmless. Miller v. Universal City Studios, Inc., 650 F.2d 1365, 1372 (5th Cir.1981). Carnival is therefore due a new trial. III. CONCLUSION We REVERSE the district court’s denial of Carnival’s motion for a new trial on the ground that its jury instruction was erroneous. We REMAND the case to the district court for a new trial. . The International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea ("SOLAS”) requires

***short_citations_2:*** 829 F.2d 1399

formal claim to the vessel, appeared on the vessel’s behalf and had then waived any claim of lack of in rem jurisdiction. Id. at 1110. In Cactus Pipe, as in the case before us, the complaint expressly characterized the action as one both in rem and in personam, and also included the traditional prayer for issuance of process in rem against the vessel. In both Cactus Pipe and the case before us process never did issue. The Cactus Pipe court nevertheless concluded that the filing of a claim of owner operated as an appearance and the failure to then raise a claim of lack of jurisdiction over the party waived any such defense. Id. at 1107-11. The only difference in this case is that instead of filing a claim of owner with the court Conticarriers identified itself as the claimant to the vessel in an answer to a cross-claim. While we recognize that the lack of an express procedural provision allowing voluntary appearances of vessels may have been relied upon by Conticarriers, such inadvertence and such ill-advised reliance may well have led the other parties to the action and the court reasonably to conclude that Barge CCT-124 had entered the action, thus making unnecessary any resort to the supplemental rules regarding attachment. Conticarriers’s counsel in the case also expressly and voluntarily cast their role in the answer to the cross-claim as claimant to the barge, without any indication that the statement was only an announcement that if the barge was

**prev_text:**
POSNER, Circuit Judge. The defendant owns and operates a riverboat casino that at the time of the
plaintiffs accident had for the previous two years been moored to a pier on a navigable portion of
the Des Plaines River in Illinois; Illinois law permits a casino boat to be moored indefinitely. The
plaintiff was playing a slot machine when the stool she was leaning against collapsed and she fell,
injuring herself. The boat was stationary when the accident occurred rather than rocking back and
forth in the wash of a passing boat. Nevertheless the plaintiff filed suit in federal district court
under the admiralty law. The defendant moved to dismiss the suit on the ground that it was not
within the admiralty jurisdiction. The district court granted the motion. Had the casino been
located on the pier rather than in a boat moored to it, there would be no argument that the
plaintiffs claim was an admiralty claim. Since the boat was moored indefinitely, it could be thought
the equivalent of landfill, and an accident occurring on landfill adjacent to navigable waters is
not within the admiralty jurisdiction unless (as we’ll see) the accident involved the boat’s
colliding with or otherwise damaging something on the land. The accident in our case had nothing to
do with the fact that the casino was on a boat afloat on a navigable stream rather than sitting on
dry land. And so whatever distinctive rules of liability admiralty courts have developed would be no
better suited, and perhaps would be worse suited, to the resolution of this accident case than
ordinary state tort law would be. There is, therefore, commonsense appeal to the district court’s
ruling that the suit is not within the admiralty jurisdiction. But the most important requirement of
a jurisdictional rule is not that it appeal to common sense but that it be clear. Budinich v. Becton
Dickinson & Co., 486 U.S. 196, 202, 108 S.Ct. 1717, 100 L.Ed.2d 178 (1988); Hoagland v. Sandberg,
Phoenix & Von Gantard, P.C., 385 F.3d 737, 739-40 (7th Cir.2004); In re Kilgus, 811 F.2d 1112, 1117
(7th Cir.1987); Cohen v. Empire Blue Cross & Blue Shield, 176 F.3d 35, 42 (2d Cir.1999); Long v.
Sasser, 91 F.3d 645, 647 (4th Cir.1996). It is very unfortunate when parties are not sure which
court they should be litigating their dispute in, as the case at hand illustrates. The plaintiff
brought suit within the three-year statute of limitations applicable to admiralty tort suits, 46
U.S.C.App. § 763a; Alderman v. Pacific Northern Victor, Inc., 95 F.3d 1061, 1065-66 (11th Cir.1996);
Usher v. M/V Ocean Wave, 27 F.3d 370, 371 (9th Cir.1994) (per curiam), but the statute of
limitations applicable to personal-injury suits under Illinois law is only two years, 735 ILCS
5/13-202, so that if the ruling stands the plaintiff is barred from any judicial relief because she
sued more than two years after the accident. Congress has extended the admiralty jurisdiction to
“all cases of damage or injury, to person or property, caused by a vessel on navigable water.”
Extension of Admiralty Jurisdiction Act, 46 U.S.C.App. § 740. Since “vessel” has been interpreted to
include the vessel’s fixtures, furniture, and other “appurtenances,” Jerome B. Grubart, Inc. v.
Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co., 513 U.S. 527, 535, 115 S.Ct. 1043, 130 L.Ed.2d 1024 (1995); Scott v.
Trump Indiana, Inc., 337 F.3d 939, 943 (7th Cir.2003); Anderson v. United States, 317 F.3d 1235,
1237-38 (11th Cir.2003), the injury resulting from the defective stool in this case was an injury
caused by a vessel. Kermarec v. Compagnie Generale Transatlantique, 358 U.S. 625, 626-28, 79 S.Ct.
406, 3 L.Ed.2d 550 (1959); Palmer v. Fayard Moving & Transportation Corp., 930 F.2d 437, 441 (5th
Cir.1991), and cases cited there. The vessel was on navigable waters, moreover, and while the
Supreme Court has now held that a boat that “has been permanently moored or otherwise rendered
practically incapable of transportation or movement” is not a “vessel” for purposes of admiralty
jurisdiction, Stewart v. Dutra Construction Co., 543 U.S. 481, 494, 125 S.Ct. 1118, 160 L.Ed.2d 932
(2005), there has been no showing that the boat in our case, though stationary for the past two
years, is permanently moored in the Court’s sense (disabled from sailing) and is thus the equivalent
of landfill. To subject to the admiralty jurisdiction an accident that occurs on a vessel afloat on
a navigable body of water, and that is caused by the vessel or by some object in or attached to it,
is a natural application of the Extension of Admiralty Jurisdiction Act. St. Hilaire Moye v.
Henderson, 496 F.2d 973, 979 (8th Cir.1974); 1 Robert Force & Martin J. Norris, The Law of Maritime
Personal Injuries § 1:17 (5th ed.2005); David W. Robertson & Michael F. Sturley, “The Admiralty
Extension Act Solution,” 34 J. Maritime L. & Commerce 209, 239-43, 269-73, 297 (2003); Russell J.
Smith, Note, “Congress Giveth and the Fifth Circuit Taketh Away: Post Executive Jet Viability of the
Admiralty Extension Act,” 6 U. San Francisco Maritime L.J. 609 (1994). But this is on the assumption
that the Act is indeed, as its title and language suggest, an independent basis of federal
jurisdiction — independent, that is, of the basic grant of admiralty jurisdiction in 28 U.S.C. §
1333(1). And so the Eighth Circuit held in the St. Hilaire case, cited above, though the Supreme
Court left the question open in Jerome B. Grubart, Inc. v. Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co., supra, 513
U.S. at 543 n. 5, 115 S.Ct. 1043, 130 L.Ed.2d 1024, as it had earlier done in Sisson v. Ruby, 497
U.S. 358, 359 n. 1, 110 S.Ct. 2892, 111 L.Ed.2d 292 (1990). But the Fifth and Eleventh Circuits have
rejected (though without citing) St. Hilaire. Sohyde Drilling & Marine Co. v. Coastal States Gas
Producing Co., 644 F.2d 1132, 1135-36 (5th Cir.1981); Crotwell v. Hockman-Lewis, Ltd., 734 F.2d 767,
768 (11th Cir.1984). They have done this on the basis of legislative history. That history indicates
that the Act’s purpose was merely to make clear that accidents caused by boats on navigable waters
are within the admiralty jurisdiction even if the damage caused by the accident was to something on
the land. H.R.Rep. No. 1523, 80th Cong., 2d Sess. (1948); S.Rep. No. 1593, 80th Cong., 2d Sess.
(1948). We do not think that the legislative history should override the broad statutory language,
which provides a clear and simple jurisdictional test for cases like this, in contrast to the vague
“maritime nexus” (or “connection”) test (“the party seeking to invoke maritime jurisdiction must
show a substantial relationship between the activity giving rise to the incident and traditional
maritime activity,” Sisson v. Ruby, supra, 497 U.S. at 364, 110 S.Ct. 2892, 111 L.Ed.2d 292) that is
used to determine jurisdiction under section 1333(1), which confers but does not define admiralty
jurisdiction. But our case would pass that test as well; vagueness has it uses. The main practical
use of the “connection” test has been to expel from the admiralty jurisdiction freak cases. Thus, in
describing the application of the test the Supreme Court in Grubart cited a case involving a plane
crash in which a portion of the wreckage slid into navigable waters, Executive Jet Aviation, Inc. v.
City of Cleveland, 409 U.S. 249, 93 S.Ct. 493, 34 L.Ed.2d 454 (1972), the case of a swimmer diving
off a pier into navigable waters, Chapman v. City of Grosse Pointe Farms, 385 F.2d 962 (6th
Cir.1967), and the case of a motorist rear-ended while waiting for a ferry on the ferry’s landing,
which happened to be a floating pontoon. Peytavin v. Government Employees Ins. Co., 453 F.2d 1121
(5th Cir.1972). Grubart itself involved the flooding of tunnels and basements in Chicago caused by
the fact that months earlier a crane sitting on a barge had driven piles too far into a riverbed
above a tunnel. Yet unusual as were the facts in Grubart, the case was about an appurtenance (the
crane) of a boat (a barge) afloat on navigable waters and an accident, albeit on land, caused by the
handling of the appurtenance. A passage in the Court’s opinion suggests that the Court thought the
case rather simple: “This Court has not proposed any radical alteration of the traditional criteria
for invoking admiralty jurisdiction in tort cases, but has simply followed the lead of the lower
federal courts in rejecting a location rule so rigid as to extend admiralty to a case involving an
airplane, not a vessel, engaged in activity far removed from anything traditionally maritime.” 513
U.S. at 542, 115 S.Ct. 1043. The “location” rule at its broadest was that any accident that occurs
on navigable waters is within the admiralty jurisdiction. The Plymouth, 70 U.S. (3 Wall.) 20, 36, 18
L.Ed. 125 (1865). That would have encompassed the airplane, swimmer, and motorist cases, and the
Court made clear in Grubart that it wouldn’t go that far. When a boat is involved, however, the
location rule is not only thoroughly compatible with the language of the Extension of Admiralty
Jurisdiction Act, but appears to have survived Grubart and thus to be the test under the general
admiralty jurisdiction conferred by 28 U.S.C. § 1333(1), as well. Weaver v. Hollywood Casino-Aurora,
Inc., 255 F.3d 379, 386-87 (7th Cir.2001), found even the “connection” test of GrubaH and Sisson
satisfied in a case like the present one, the main difference being that the injury was to a
crewmember of the gambling boat rather than to a passenger. An injury to a crewmember is somewhat
more likely to affect maritime commerce than an injury to a passenger, because the crewmember might
be vital to the operation of the boat and difficult to replace immediately. Yet even an injury to a
passenger could have a disruptive effect, if the boat had to make an unscheduled stop to get him to
a hospital (not that that could have happened here, since the boat was moored), or if the injury
revealed a dangerous condition that required time-consuming repairs. We do not think it necessary to
split these hairs — especially since effect on maritime commerce is not necessary to admiralty
jurisdiction. We acknowledge that the distinctive substantive and procedural features of admiralty
law, such as the longer statute of limitations and the absence of a right to a jury trial, were not
designed for the kind of accident that occurred here, an accident that owed nothing to its maritime
setting. So our suggested rule encroaches on a regulatory domain that might well be thought to
belong more properly to state courts and legislatures than to federal admiralty courts. But to
decide in each case whether admiralty law or state law would make a better fit with the particular
circumstances of the accident that had given rise to the suit would make the determination of
jurisdiction hopelessly uncertain. It is not a price worth paying for the slightly better match of
law to fact that would result.


