**gold_text:**
Appellant further urges that if Judge Holland disallowed part of its compensation request because of
inadequate entries on the time sheets submitted, he should have granted an opportunity to supplement
those entries. A decision in the Third Circuit suggests that the Bankruptcy Code, and possibly the
dictates of Fifth Amendment due process, would mandate a hearing so that a good faith applicant
could defend its fee application. See In re Busy Beaver Bldg. Centers, Inc., 19 F.3d 833, 846 (3d
Cir.1994). This court declines to extend that suggestion and will abide by the general rule that
uncertainties due to poor record-keeping will be resolved against the applicant. See New York Ass’n
For Retarded Children v. Carey, 711 F.2d 1136, 1142, 1146 (2d Cir.1983).

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
Appellant further argues that the bankruptcy judge failed to recognize the firm's good faith effort
to comply with the particularization requirements of § 330(a), Rule 2016(a), and applicable local
rules. Referencing case 19 F.3d 833, the bankruptcy court may allow reasonable time to supplement
the application with more detailed descriptions or legal arguments if information is too vague for
reliable determination of compensability. The court should notify the applicant of specific reasons
for denying fees and allow defense of the application upon request. If the court persists in
disallowing compensation post-hearing, it must provide sufficient findings of fact and conclusions
to facilitate appellate review (19 F.3d 833).  Moreover, Appellant contends that the District Court
should have taken into account its attempts to be conservative with time entries, despite some being
inadequately documented, as noted in case 711 F.2d 1136. The District Court in that case disallowed
hours claimed by law students due to poor documentation, citing any ambiguities should be resolved
against the applicant.  The court’s rejection of speculative claims concerning the enhanced value of
services echoes the sentiments of Pennsylvania v. Delaware Valley Citizens’ Council for Clean Air
and Blum v. Stenson, where upwards adjustments of lodestar amounts are reserved for rare and
exceptional circumstances. Given the detailed examination and adherence to the lodestar method by
the bankruptcy court, this court finds no abuse of discretion in the fee determination.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
  In the context of bankruptcy cases, the determination of attorney fees is a crucial aspect of the
bankruptcy process. The court's discretion in this matter is well-established, as seen in cases such
as In re Nine Assocs., 76 B.R. 943, 944 (S.D.N.Y.1987). The court's decision to award or deny
attorney fees is rarely set aside, and reversal is justified only when there is no evidence
whatsoever to sustain the findings.  In this particular case, the bankruptcy court's decision to
disallow some of the requested compensation is supported by the court's careful examination of each
time entry to ascertain whether the services were adequately documented and whether they were actual
and necessary. This is in line with the principles outlined in 19 F.3d 833, where the court
emphasizes the importance of ensuring that the applicant has made a good faith effort to comply with
the particularization requirements of § 330(a).  Furthermore, the bankruptcy court's decision to
disallow the majority of hours claimed by the law students is also justified. As seen in 711 F.2d
1136, the court may disallow fees for any of the law students' time if the information provided does
not allow for a reliable determination of compensability or if the court would benefit from legal
argument.  In conclusion, the bankruptcy court's decision to disallow some of the requested
compensation is supported by the court's careful examination of each time entry and is in line with
established principles in bankruptcy law. The court's discretion in this matter is well-established,
and reversal is justified only when there is no evidence whatsoever to sustain the findings.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-finetuned:***
  The bankruptcy court did not err in failing to provide appellant with an opportunity to supplement
its application before denying some amount of the requested compensation. See In re Paster, 119 B.R.
468, 470 (E.D.Pa.1990); In re Constan Corp., No. 91-7176, 1992 WL 55694, at *1-*2 (E.D.Pa. Mar. 17,
1992); In re Paul, 141 B.R. 302, 302 (E.D.Pa.1992). Nor did the court err in failing to provide a
detailed explanation of its reasons for denying the fees, as it is not required to do so unless it
determines that the applicant sought in good faith to comply with the specificity requirements. See
In re Rusty Jones, 134 B.R. 333, 333 (E.D.Pa.1991); In re Hensley, 19 F.3d 833, 834 (8th Cir.1994);
In re 711 F.2d 1136 (8th Cir.1983). The bankruptcy court’s decision is supported by the record, and
this court will not disturb it. See In re Nine Assocs., 76 B.R. 943, 944 (S.D.N.Y.1987). The appeal
is denied. (Id.) at 944. (Id.) at 944. (Id.) at 944. (Id.) at 944. (Id.) at 944.


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['19 F.3d 833', '19 F.3d 833', '711 F.2d 1136']

***short_citations_0:*** 19 F.3d 833

fee applicant made a good faith effort to comply with the particularization requirements of § 330(a), Rule 2016(a), and applicable local rules, either the information provided does not allow for a reliable determination of compensability (because it is too vague or otherwise), or that the court would benefit from legal argument, it may allow the professional a reasonable time to supplement the application with either a more detailed description of the questionable services, or with a memorandum of points and authorities in support of the application, respectively. If the bankruptcy court at any time, irrespective of any opportunity to supplement, denies some amount of the requested compensation, and if it determines the applicant sought in good faith to comply with the aforementioned specificity requirements, it should notify the applicant of its particular reasons for denying the fees, and, should he or she make a timely request for one, allow the professional the occasion to defend his or her fee application with legal arguments and/or evidence (of market practices, etc.) at a hearing. Moreover, if after the hearing the court adheres to its views and disallows some of the requested compensation, it should enter sufficient findings of fact and conclusions of law in the record to facilitate appellate review. See, e.g., In re Paul, 141 B.R. at 302; In re Conston Corp., No. 91-7176, 1992 WL 55694, at *1-*2 (E.D.Pa. Mar. 17, 1992); In re Rusty Jones, 134 B.R. at 333; In re Paster, 119 B.R. 468, 470 (E.D.Pa.1990); cf. Hensley

***short_citations_1:*** 19 F.3d 833

made a good faith effort to comply with the particularization requirements of § 330(a), Rule 2016(a), and applicable local rules, either the information provided does not allow for a reliable determination of compensability (because it is too vague or otherwise), or that the court would benefit from legal argument, it may allow the professional a reasonable time to supplement the application with either a more detailed description of the questionable services, or with a memorandum of points and authorities in support of the application, respectively. If the bankruptcy court at any time, irrespec- ‘ tive of any opportunity to supplement, denies some amount of the requested compensation, and if it determines the applicant sought in good faith to comply with the aforementioned specificity requirements, it should notify the applicant of its particular reasons for denying the fees, and, should he or she make a timely request for one, allow the professional the occasion to defend his or her fee application with legal arguments and/or evidence (of market practices, etc.) at a hearing. Moreover, if after the hearing the court adheres to its views and disallows some of the requested compensation, it should enter sufficient findings of fact and conclusions of law in the record to facilitate appellate review. See, e.g., In re Paul, 141 B.R. at 302; In re Constan Corp., No. 91-7176, 1992 WL 55694, at *1-*2 (E.D.Pa. Mar. 17, 1992); In re Rusty Jones, 134 B.R. at 333; In re Paster, 119 B.R. 468, 470 (E.D.Pa.1990); cf. Hensley

***short_citations_2:*** 711 F.2d 1136

failure was particularly inexcusable after the March 22, 1978, ruling, once it was clear that attorney’s fees were to be awarded in this case. However, notwithstanding plaintiffs’ inadequate documentation, the District Court accepted the application and proceeded to determine how much of the time claimed was compensable under section 1988. Although Judge Bar-tels believed that “counsel have generally attempted to be conservative in their reconstruction of hours,” id. at 339, he also concluded that the application for fees was inaccurate in some respects and included instances of excess and duplication. The District Court, therefore, disallowed a significant number of the hours claimed by the plaintiffs. These disallowances can be divided into four groups. First, the District Court disallowed all 2,420 hours claimed for work done by two law students. The only support for this portion of the application was the general recollections of the law students themselves. Their affidavits and responses to interrogatories gave only cursory accounts of the manner in which these hours were expended. Judge Bartels could not determine which of the law students’ hours were compensable under section 1988 as legal services and which represented educational activities of little or no value to the plaintiff class; he decided that any ambiguities arising out of poor records should be resolved against the applicant, see EEOC v. Sage Realty Corp., 521 F.Supp. 263, 273-74 (S.D.N.Y.1981), and therefore disallowed fees for any of the law students’ time. Second, the District Court disallowed the majority of hours claimed by the three

**prev_text:**
MEMORANDUM AND ORDER NICKERSON, Senior District Judge. Appellant Parker Chapin Flattau & Klimpl, a
law firm, appeals from a July 31, 1995 order of the bankruptcy court (Holland, J.) deciding its
application for final allowance of attorney fees and requiring disgorgement of $84,623.15 in funds
appellant received during the pendency of the bankruptcy. This court has jurisdiction pursuant to 28
U.S.C § 158(a), which provides for appellate jurisdiction in the district courts from “final
judgments, orders, and decrees ... of bankruptcy judges.” The Court reviews the bankruptcy court’s
factual findings under the clearly erroneous standard and its legal conclusions de novo. See In re
Chateaugay Corp., 104 B.R. 637, 642 (S.D.N.Y.1989). Facts Debtors Poseidon Pools of America, Inc.
and six wholly-owned subsidiaries filed Chapter 11 petitions in February and March 1991. Their cases
were consolidated, and appellant was retained as counsel to the debtors as of February 13, 1991. The
bankruptcy court converted the cases to Chapter 7 by order dated September 15,1992. On February 19,
1992 appellant first applied for compensation of services and reimbursement of expenses. The
bankruptcy court on April 2,1992 awarded an advance of $183,588.46 subject to final fixing of fair
and reasonable value. Appellant filed a final application for compensation on October 2, 1992, and
the bankruptcy court held hearings on the application on October 14 and October 28, 1992. The
bankruptcy court allowed a further advance of $140,748.92 on May 28, 1993 pending final disposition
of the application. The trustee raised no objections to the application. On July 31, 1995 the
bankruptcy court set final compensation in the amount of $239,-164.23 and directed the return of
$84,623.15 that appellant had received in excess of that amount. This court granted a stay of the
bankruptcy court’s order pending this appeal. The Bankruptcy Court’s Order Judge Holland examined in
detail each of the firm’s time entries to ascertain (1) whether the services were adequately
documented and (2) whether they were actual and necessary. He noted that it is the affirmative duty
of the bankruptcy court to examine the propriety of fees even where no objections are raised. See
Bankr.Code, 11 U.S .C.A. § 330; In re Ferkauf, 42 B.R. 852, 853 (Bankr.S.D.N.Y.1984), aff'd., 56
B.R. 774 (S.D.N.Y.1985). Citing inadequate descriptions, duplicative services, and lumping of tasks,
Judge Holland granted the final allowance. Appellant says that the bankruptcy judge abused his
discretion by declining to allow its fee application in full, and argues that the judge did not
determine a lodestar figure and did not consider the value of the firm’s services to the debtors in
reducing their secured debt from $2.8 million to $350,000. While any determination of fees must
begin with a lodestar figure, see In re Cena’s Fine Furniture, Inc., 109 B.R. 575, 581
(E.D.N.Y.1990), the contention that the bankruptcy judge did not compute such a figure is
inaccurate. A lodestar figure is calculated by multiplying “the hours reasonably spent by counsel”
by a “reasonable hourly rate.” F.H. Krear & Co. v. Nineteen Named Trustees, 810 F.2d 1250, 1263 (2d
Cir.1987). Judge Holland reviewed the firm’s time entries to arrive at a number of compensable hours
spent by counsel, then multiplied those hours by the hourly rates stated in the application. The
judge did apply the lodestar method. Appellant asserts that the bankruptcy court should not have
disallowed time entries for “lumping” and duplication of services. The bankruptcy court had
discretion to make such determinations. See. e.g., In re The Bennett Funding Group, Inc., 213 B.R.
234, 245 (Bankr.N.D.N.Y.1997) (“It is ... an accepted principle that generally no more than one
attorney may bill for time spent in intraoffice conferences or meetings absent an adequate
explanation.”); In re Blackwood Assocs., 165 B.R. 108, 113 (Bankr.E.D.N.Y. 1994) (“as a general
rule, when ‘services ... have been lumped together [they] are not compensable.’ ”) (quoting In re
Navis Realty, Inc., 126 B.R. 137, 141 (Bankr.E.D.N.Y.1991)). The contention that the bankruptcy
court failed to consider the value of appellant’s services to the debtors is speculative. While the
bankruptcy court may decide that enhancement or reduction of the lodestar figure is warranted by
particular circumstances, see, e.g., In re General Oil Distribs., Inc., 51 B.R. 794, 802
(Bankr.E.D.N.Y.1985), an upwards adjustment of the lodestar amount is “proper only in certain ‘rare’
and ‘exceptional’ cases.” Pennsylvania v. Delaware Valley Citizens’ Council for Clean Air, 478 U.S.
546, 565, 106 S.Ct. 3088, 3098, 92 L.Ed.2d 439 (1986) (quoting Blum v. Stenson, 465 U.S. 886, 899,
104 S.Ct. 1541, 1549, 79 L.Ed.2d 891 (1984)). The awarding of attorney’s fees by a bankruptcy court
is a matter within its discretion, and the court’s decision is rarely set aside. See In re Nine
Assocs., 76 B.R. 943, 944 (S.D.N.Y.1987) (holding that reversal is justified “ ‘only when there is
no evidence whatsoever to sustain [the bankruptcy court’s] findings’ ”) (quoting In re Savarese, 56
F.Supp. 927, 928 (E.D.N.Y.1944)). This court cannot say that the bankruptcy court abused its
discretion by not granting an enhancement of the lodestar amount on the basis of benefit to the
debtors.


