**gold_text:**
A plaintiff alleging copyright infringement may elect either actual or statutory damages under 17
U.S.C. § 504. Hickory Grove, 749 F.Supp. at 1039. Section 504(c)(1) provides that where statutory
damages are elected, the trial court may, in its discretion, award damages of between $250 and
$10,000 for each copyright infringed. “District courts have wide discretion in determining the
amount of statutory damages to be awarded, ‘constrained only by the specified maxima and minima.’ ”
Id. (quoting Harris v. Emus Records Corp., 734 F.2d 1329, 1335 (9th Cir.1984)). See also, Int'l
Korwin, 855 F.2d at 383; Morley Music Co. v. Dick Stacey’s Plaza Motel, Inc., 725 F.2d 1 (1st
Cir.1983); Fermata, 712 F.Supp. at 1263; Sailor Music, 640 F.Supp. at 635.

**Generations:**


***GPT-4o:***
(ii) Statutory Damages  Pursuant to 17 U.S.C. § 504(c)(1), plaintiffs may elect to recover either
actual or statutory damages prior to final judgment. As established in Reference case 734 F.2d 1329,
statutory damages are available regardless of the adequacy of evidence supporting actual damages or
profits. Statutory damages range from $250 to $10,000 per infringement, and up to $50,000 for
willful infringements as stated in 17 U.S.C. § 504(c)(2). The court has considerable discretion in
setting the amount as affirmed in 734 F.2d 1329 and 725 F.2d 1.  In this case, Plaintiffs seek
statutory damages of $1,500 per infringement, totaling $7,500 for the five infringements (Reference
case 734 F.2d 1329). This amount falls within the statutory range and is supported by evidence from
plaintiffs’ affidavits demonstrating the unauthorized public performance on February 10, 1990. Given
the undisputed facts and the discretion afforded under the statute, the requested statutory damages
are reasonable and warranted.  Thus, the Court awards Plaintiffs statutory damages in the amount of
$7,500 for the five infringements.  CONCLUSION  For the reasons stated, the Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’
Motion for Summary Judgment. Plaintiffs are awarded $7,500 in statutory damages, reasonable
attorney’s fees, and costs of the action. Additionally, a permanent injunction is issued against
Defendants to prevent further infringement of Plaintiffs’ copyrights.  IT IS SO ORDERED.


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct:***
 Here's the answer:  <answer>  The court grants summary judgment in favor of the plaintiffs. The
undisputed facts establish that the defendants, Downside Lenox, Inc. and Peter M. Peck, infringed
the copyrights of the plaintiffs by publicly performing the musical compositions without permission.
The defendants' use of a radio-over-loudspeakers system to broadcast the copyrighted works at the
Bucket Shop, a public bar and restaurant, constitutes a public performance under 17 U.S.C. § 101.
The defendants' defenses, including the "home-system" defense, "fair use" defense, and defense of
lack of intent to infringe, are rejected. The court finds that the defendants' use of the
copyrighted works was not exempt under 17 U.S.C. § 110(5) because the sound system was not of the
kind commonly used in private homes, and the performances were further transmitted to the public.
The court also rejects the defendants' claim of "fair use" under 17 U.S.C. § 107, finding that the
use was not for purposes such as criticism, comment, news reporting, teaching, scholarship, or
research. The court notes that the defendants' use was commercial in


**Label:** 


***Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct-finetuned:***
  (iii) Attorneys’ Fees As a final remedy, Plaintiffs request attorneys’ fees and costs under 17
U.S.C. § 504(c). The Court finds that such a request is reasonable and hereby awards Plaintiffs
attorneys’ fees and costs in the amount of $34,152.97. In support of this award, the Court cites the
authority of Russell v. Price, 612 F.2d 1123, 1131-32 (9th Cir.1979), cert. denied, 446 U.S. 952,
100 S.Ct. 2919, 64 L.Ed.2d 809 (1980), where the Ninth Circuit held that the district court has
discretion to award attorneys’ fees in copyright infringement cases, and that such an award should
be made where the plaintiff prevails. See also, 17 U.S.C. § 504(c). Furthermore, the Court cites the
authority of L.A. Westermann Co. v. Dispatch Printing Co., 249 U.S. 100, 39 S.Ct. 194, 63 L.Ed. 499
(1919), where the Supreme Court held that the court has discretion to award attorneys’ fees in
copyright infringement cases, and that such an award should be made where the plaintiff prevails.
See also, 17 U.S.C. § 504(c). Furthermore, the Court cites the authority of L.A. Westermann Co. v.
Dispatch Printing Co., 249 U.S. 100, 39 S.Ct. 194, 63 L.Ed. 499 (1919), where the Supreme Court held
that the court has discretion to award attorneys’ fees in copyright infringement cases, and that
such an award should be made where the plaintiff prevails. See also, 17 U.S.C. § 504(c).
Furthermore, the Court cites the authority of L.A. Westermann Co. v. Dispatch Printing Co., 249 U.S.
100, 39 S.Ct. 194, 63 L.Ed. 499 (1919), where the Supreme Court held that the court has discretion
to award attorneys’ fees in copyright infringement cases, and that such an award should be made
where the plaintiff prevails. See also, 17 U.S.C. § 504(c). Furthermore, the Court cites the
authority of L.A. Westermann Co. v. Dispatch Printing Co., 249 U.S. 100, 39 S.Ct. 194,


**Label:** 


**citations:** ['734 F.2d 1329', '734 F.2d 1329', '725 F.2d 1']

***short_citations_0:*** 734 F.2d 1329

and 1981 and are controlled by the new Copyright Act of 1976. 17 U.S.C. § 301(a). Under the 1976 Act, the plaintiff, may, prior to final judgment, elect to recover either actual or statutory damages. 17 U.S.C. § 504(c)(1). Statutory damages may be elected whether or not there is adequate evidence of the actual damages suffered by plaintiff or of the profits reaped by defendant. 3 M. Nimmer, supra, § 14.04[A]. Where statutory damages are elected, the trial court may, in its discretion, award between $250 and $10,000 for each act of infringement. 17 U.S.C. § 504(c)(1). If the court finds the infringement to have been wilful, the maximum award is increased to $50,000. 17 U.S.C. § 504(c)(2). The court has wide discretion in determining the amount of statutory damages to be awarded, constrained only by the specified maxima and minima. L.A. Westermann Co. v. Dispatch Printing Co., 249 U.S. 100, 39 S.Ct. 194, 63 L.Ed. 499 (1919). The award will be overturned only for abuse of discretion. See Russell v. Price, 612 F.2d 1123, 1131-32 (9th Cir.1979), cert. denied 446 U.S. 952, 100 S.Ct. 2919, 64 L.Ed.2d 809 (1980). The district court awarded for each of the six infringed songs the maximum damages permissible, in the absence of a specific finding of wil-fullness. The trial court is in a better position than are we to determine appropriate damages. We affirm that decision. Similarly, we find no abuse of discretion in the award of $34,152.97 in attorneys’ fees. The 1976

***short_citations_1:*** 734 F.2d 1329

and 1981 and are controlled by the new Copyright Act of 1976. 17 U.S.C. § 301(a). Under the 1976 Act, the plaintiff, may, prior to final judgment, elect to recover either actual or statutory damages. 17 U.S.C. § 504(c)(1). Statutory damages may be elected whether or not there is adequate evidence of the actual damages suffered by plaintiff or of the profits reaped by defendant. 3 M. Nimmer, supra, § 14.04[A]. Where statutory damages are elected, the trial court may, in its discretion, award between $250 and $10,000 for each act of infringement. 17 U.S.C. § 504(c)(1). If the court finds the infringement to have been wilful, the maximum award is increased to $50,000. 17 U.S.C. § 504(c)(2). The court has wide discretion in determining the amount of statutory damages to be awarded, constrained only by the specified maxima and minima. L.A. Westermann Co. v. Dispatch Printing Co., 249 U.S. 100, 39 S.Ct. 194, 63 L.Ed. 499 (1919). The award will be overturned only for abuse of discretion. See Russell v. Price, 612 F.2d 1123, 1131-32 (9th Cir.1979), cert. denied 446 U.S. 952, 100 S.Ct. 2919, 64 L.Ed.2d 809 (1980). The district court awarded for each of the six infringed songs the maximum damages permissible, in the absence of a specific finding of wilfullness. The trial court is in a better position than are we to determine appropriate damages. We affirm that decision. Similarly, we find no abuse of discretion in the award of $34,152.97 in attorneys’ fees. The 1976

***short_citations_2:*** 725 F.2d 1

approximated the estimated total five year loss of license fees to ASCAP cannot, under the standard of Douglas v. Cunningham, impeach the damages judgment. We observe finally, as did the district court, that defendants do not in any way on this record appear to be prejudiced by the fact that liability was here established by default. Affirmed. . 17 U.S.C. § 504(c)(1) reads in part: . The only summary judgment granted by the district court was the default judgment of April 29, 1983 under Rule 19(b). This could only cover the issue of liability; the complaint specifically prayed for damages “as to the Court shall appear just, as specified in 17 U.S.C. § 504(c)(1), namely, not more than Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000) nor less than Two Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($250) in each cause of action herein.” The court obviously acknowledged the limits of the default judgment in confining its directions thereunder to asking plaintiffs to submit a form of injunctive order and an affidavit as to costs and attorney fees. In its Memorandum Decision and Order it specifically addressed defendants’ argument that the willfulness of defendants’ infringements was a material issue of fact, pointing out that “in lieu” damages were sought, not damages for willful infringement. Then the court proceeded to exercise its discretion as to what it considered “just”. The subsequent “Injunctive Order and Judgment”, although containing a possibly misleading introduction referring to plaintiffs’ motion for summary judgment, was clearly an effort to package all decisions in the

**prev_text:**
ORDER ROBERT H. HALL, Jr., District Judge. This is a case alleging copyright infringement under
Title 17, United States Code. Jurisdiction is vested with this Court pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §
1338(a). The case is before the Court on Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Judgment. The Court GRANTS
Plaintiffs’ Motion. BACKGROUND Plaintiffs are songwriters and music publishers who are the owners of
valid copyrights in the five musical compositions at issue in this lawsuit: “(They Long to Be) Close
to You,” “Hello,” “Keep on Loving You,” “Foolish Heart,” and “It’s Too Late.” As such, Plaintiffs
are all members of the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (“ASCAP”), an
unincorporated membership association of more than 45,000 writers and publishers of musical
compositions. ASCAP operates as a performing rights licensing organization. Accordingly, each
Plaintiff has granted to ASCAP a nonexclusive license to authorize the nondramatic public
performance of that Plaintiff’s copyrighted musical compositions. Defendant Downside Lenox, Inc. is
a Georgia corporation which owns, manages and operates a place of business for public entertainment
and refreshment known as the Bucket Shop, located at 3475 Lenox Road, Atlanta, Georgia. Defendant
Peter M. Peck is, and was at all relevant times, employed by Downside Lenox as Chief Executive
Officer, his primary responsibility being the control, management, operation and maintenance of the
corporation. Defendants regularly transmit musical compositions by a radio-over-loudspeakers system
for the benefit of customers of the Bucket Shop. The public area of the Bucket Shop consists of
separate bar and dining areas, and in 1985 included one area in which live music was performed, and
another in which a “radio-over-loudspeakers” system was used. Accordingly, Defendants at that time
entered into a licensing agreement with ASCAP authorizing Defendants to publicly perform at the
Bucket Shop any or all of the copyrighted musical compositions in the ASCAP repertory, which,
according to Plaintiffs, number some “hundreds of thousands” of compositions. Complaint, p. 3. In
return for the license, Defendants agreed to pay appropriate annual license fees to ASCAP, as
determined by ASCAP in light of the types of music provided by Defendants. Subsequent to Defendants’
and ASCAP’s execution of the licensing agreement, Defendants decided not to continue providing live
music, but rather to retain only the radio-over-loudspeakers system. Thereafter, Defendants claimed
that the license fees sought by ASCAP were too high, and refused to pay their license fees due under
the agreement. Following repeated notices, ASCAP on February 15, 1989 terminated the licensing
agreement for default. Thereafter, ASCAP made repeated offers to reinstate Defendants’ license in
exchange for Defendants’ payment to ASCAP of the license fees owed, but Defendants did not respond.
ASCAP also repeatedly warned Defendants of their potential liability under the copyright law, to no
avail. On June 19, 1990, Plaintiffs commenced this lawsuit, alleging in their Complaint that
Defendants infringed their copyrights on February 10, 1990 by publicly performing the compositions
in question without the approval of either ASCAP or the individual owners of the copyrights.
Specifically, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants, using their radio-over-loudspeakers system,
retransmitted without permission a radio broadcast containing the five songs which are the subject
of this lawsuit. Altogether, Plaintiffs thus allege five distinct incidents of infringement, giving
rise to five causes of action. Plaintiffs in their Complaint seek an injunction pursuant to 17
U.S.C. § 502 restraining Defendants from publicly performing the musical compositions in question;
statutory damages as provided for in 17 U.S.C. § 504 in the amount of $1,500.00 per infringement,
for a total of $7,500.00.; and costs of the action, including reasonable attorney’s fees, pursuant
to 17 U.S.C. § 505. Currently, Plaintiffs have moved for summary judgment. DISCUSSION I. Standard of
Review for Summary Judgment This Court will grant summary judgment when “there is no genuine issue
as to any material fact ... and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”
Fed.R.Civ.P. 56(c). The moving party must demonstrate that the nonmoving party lacks evidence to
support an essential element of her or his claim. Celotex Corp. v. Catrett, 477 U.S. 317, 325, 106
S.Ct. 2548, 2553-54, 91 L.Ed.2d 265 (1986), cert. denied, 484 U.S. 1066 (1988). The movant’s burden
is “discharged by showing—that is, pointing out to the district court—that there is an absence of
evidence to support the nonmoving party’s case.” Id. Once the movant has met this burden, the
opposing party must present evidence establishing a material issue of fact. Id. The non-moving party
must go “beyond the pleadings” and present evidence designating “specific facts showing that there
is a genuine issue for trial.” Id. at 324, 106 S.Ct. at 2553. All evidence and factual inferences
should be viewed in the light most favorable to the nonmoving party. Rollins v. TechSouth, Inc., 833
F.2d 1525, 1529 (11th Cir.1987); Everett v. Napper, 833 F.2d 1507, 1510 (11th Cir.1987). However,
“the mere existence of some alleged factual dispute between the parties will not defeat an otherwise
properly supported motion for summary judgment; the requirement is that there be no genuine issue of
material fact.” Anderson v. Liberty Lobby, Inc., 477 U.S. 242, 248, 106 S.Ct. 2505, 2510, 91 L.Ed.2d
202 (1986) (emphasis in original). An issue is not genuine if it is unsupported by evidence or is
created by evidence that is “merely colorable” or “not significantly probative.” Id. at 250, 106
S.Ct. at 2511. Similarly, a fact is not material unless it is identified by the controlling
substantive law as an essential element of the nonmoving party’s case. Id. at 248, 106 S.Ct. at
2510. Thus, to survive a motion for summary judgment, the nonmoving party must come forward with
specific evidence of every element essential to his or her case so as to create a genuine issue for
trial. Celotex, 477 U.S. at 323, 106 S.Ct. at 2552-53; Rollins, 833 F.2d at 1528. II. Application In
moving for summary judgment, Plaintiffs contend that the undisputed facts establish, first, that
Defendants infringed Plaintiffs’ copyrights, and second, that none of Defendants’ claimed
affirmative defenses apply to the present situation. As a result, Plaintiffs contend that they are
entitled to judgment as a matter of law. A. Evaluation of Facts In support of their Motion for
Summary Judgment, Plaintiffs contend that the undisputed facts establish that: (1) Plaintiffs are
the owners of valid copyrights in the compositions in question; (2) on the night of February 10,
1990, Defendants, using a radio-over-loudspeakers system, retransmitted to their patrons a radio
broadcast including those copyrighted compositions; and (3) Defendants were at the time unauthorized
to retransmit Plaintiffs’ copyrighted works. In support of their version of the facts, Plaintiffs
present the affidavits of two investigators establishing that Defendants, using a radio-over-
loudspeakers system, broadcast the five musical compositions in question at the Bucket Shop on the
date in question. Plaintiffs also present as evidence the affidavit of Mr. Gary Hartman, the
Division Manager for ASCAP, and Manager for ASCAP’s Atlanta District Office. In his affidavit, Mr.
Hartman establishes both the facts that Plaintiffs are members of ASCAP, and that Defendants lacked
permission to perform the compositions at issue. In response, Defendants fail to go “beyond the
pleadings” and present any evidence whatsoever indicating the existence of a material issue of
disputed fact with regard to the events of February 10, 1990. First, Defendants do not dispute
Plaintiffs’ ownership of valid copyrights in the compositions in question. Furthermore, Defendants
admit that “[t]here is little doubt that these songs were played” at the Bucket Shop on the night in
question. Defendants’ Objection to Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Judgment, p. 1. Finally,
Defendants fail to present any evidence that they in fact were at the time authorized to retransmit
the copyrighted works. Rather than disputing Plaintiffs’ asserted facts, Defendants merely contest
Plaintiffs’ argument that the retransmission of songs via a radio-over-loudspeakers system
constitutes an unauthorized “public performance” of the songs so as to violate the copyright
statute. The Court thus finds that there is no material issue of disputed fact regarding the events
of February 10, 1990, and accepts Plaintiffs’ version of those facts as undisputed. As a result, the
only remaining questions before this Court involve the proper application of the law to these
undisputed facts. B. Application of Law (1) Copyright Infringement In an action for copyright
infringement, a plaintiff must prove the following elements: (1) the originality and authorship of
the compositions involved; (2) compliance with all formalities required to secure a copyright under
Title 17, United States Code; (3) that Plaintiffs are the proprietors of the copyrights of the
compositions involved in this action; (4) that the compositions were performed publicly [by the
defendants]; and (5) that the defendants had not received permission from any of the plaintiffs or
their representatives for such performance. Fermata Int’l Melodies v. Champions Golf Club, 712
F.Supp. 1257, 1259 (S.D.Tex.1989) (citing Van Halen Music v. Palmer, 626 F.Supp. 1163, 1165
(W.D.Ark. 1986)). In addition, it must be shown that none of the defendant’s claimed affirmative
defenses apply. See Fermata, 712 F.Supp. at 1261. In their Objection to Plaintiffs’ Motion for
Summary Judgment, Defendants do not dispute the originality of the works, the validity of
Plaintiffs’ copyrights in those works, Plaintiffs’ resulting proprietary interests in the
compositions, the fact that Defendants retransmitted the works on the night of February 10, 1990, or
Defendants’ lack of permission to publicly perform the songs. Thus, the sole issue remaining for
decision is whether the admitted retransmission of a radio broadcast including copyrighted
compositions constitutes a “public performance” of the compositions so as to establish an
infringement of copyright. “The issue of whether the compositions were performed ‘publicly’ is a
question of law for this Court to decide.” Fermata, 712 F.Supp. at 1260. In order for this Court to
find a copyright infringement violation, the performance of the copyrighted musical compositions
must come within the Copyright Act’s definition of “public performance.” 17 U.S.C. § 101 (1982)
provides: To perform or display a work “publicly” means— (1) to perform or display it at a place
open to the public or at any place where a substantial number of persons outside of a normal circle
of a family and its social acquaintances is gathered; or (2) to transmit or otherwise communicate a
performance or display of the work to a place specified by clause (1) or to the public, by means of
any device or process, whether the members of the public capable of receiving the performance or
display receive it in the same place or in separate places and at the same time or at different
times. Section 101 further provides: To “transmit” a performance or display is to communicate it by
any device or process whereby images or sounds are received beyond the place from which they are
sent. Faced with virtually identical facts, other courts have consistently held that playing music
by means of a radio-over-loudspeakers system in a restaurant which is open to the public constitutes
a public performance within the purview of the Copyright Law. A recent case on point is Hickory
Grove Music v. Andrews, 749 F.Supp. 1031, 1037 (D.Mont.1990). There, as here, the issue was “whether
playing music over a radio constitutes a ‘public performance’ of a musical composition.” Id. at
1036. The court in Hickory Grove held that it did, citing the language of 17 U.S.C. § 101 and
finding that by employing a radio-over-loudspeakers system similar to Defendants’ system here, the
defendants in that case played music by means of a device, and thus infringed the plaintiffs’
copyrights. The same result was reached in Int’l Korwin Corp. v. Kowalczyk, 855 F.2d 375, 377 (7th
Cir.1988), where the court determined that the retransmission of a radio broadcast throughout the
defendant’s restaurant constituted a “public performance” for the purposes of applying the copyright
law. This Court thus finds that in this case, Defendants’ retransmission of the subject songs using
their radio-over-loudspeakers system constituted a “public performance” within the purview of the
Copyright Act. As a result, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have satisfied all of the requirements
for a showing of copyright infringement as enumerated in Fermata. (2) Affirmative Defenses In moving
for summary judgment, Plaintiffs further assert that the undisputed facts establish the factual and
legal insufficiency of Defendants’ claimed affirmative defenses. As an aside, it is noteworthy to
the Court that in their Answer to Plaintiff’s Complaint, Defendants assert several affirmative
defenses, all of which Plaintiffs in their Motion for Summary Judgment allege to be insufficient.
Nevertheless, in responding to Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Judgment, Defendants, rather than
reasserting any of the affirmative defenses previously raised, assert three additional defenses
never before discussed. For the sake of clarity and thoroughness, however, the Court will consider
individually all of the defenses raised at various times by Defendants. The first four numbered
discussions below concern defenses raised in Defendants’ Answer; the remaining three concern
defenses raised in Defendants’ Objection to Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Judgment. (1) Defense of
ASCAP’s Failure to Renegotiate Its Licensing Agreement with Defendants Defendants’ First, Second,
and Fifth affirmative defenses as presented in their Answer are based upon their contentions that
the licensing fees sought by ASCAP were too high and that ASCAP refused to renegotiate its previous
agreement with Defendants. However, Defendants present no evidence in support of this contention. To
the contrary, Plaintiffs present evidence that in fact it was ASCAP itself which continually sought
to relicense Defendants, and that ASCAP at all times sought from Defendants licensing fees which not
only were reasonable and standard in light of the type of music provided at the Bucket Shop, but
also were altered to reflect Defendants’ discontinuance of the live music portion of the Bucket
Shop’s entertainment. See Hartman affidavit, attached as Exhibit A to Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary
Judgment, pp. 4-6, ¶¶ 8-10. Nevertheless, even if Defendants had produced evidence in support of
their argument, disputes over the reasonableness of a licensing fee do not constitute valid defenses
to a copyright infringement suit. See Wow and Flutter Music, Inc. v. Gato Gordo Enterprises, 1984
Copyright L.Dec. (CCH) 1125, 725 (S.D.Ill.1984) (“a dispute as to reasonableness of a license fee
does not justify infringing on a valid copyright.”). (ii) “Recording License” Defense Defendants
present as their Third affirmative defense a “recording license” defense. This defense is based upon
Defendants’ contention that since the radio station conducting the original broadcast must in the
first instance pay Plaintiffs for the privilege of airing the songs, the Copyright Act did not
intend for the party receiving and retransmitting the radio station’s broadcast—here, Defendants—to
pay for that right as well. The Court does not agree with Defendants. Rather, the Copyright Act
envisions the granting of different types of rights in copyrighted works, with each type of right
being distinguishable from the others. See Chappell & Co., Inc. v. Middletown Farmers Market, 334
F.2d 303, 305 (3rd Cir.1964) (“[t]he surrender of one monopoly (the right to make mechanical
reproductions) does not carry with it the right to publicly perform the copyrighted musical
composition ...”). (iii) “No Profit” Defense Defendants’ Fourth affirmative defense is a “no profit”
defense, and is based upon Defendants’ contention that they do not directly profit from the
performances in question. 17 U.S.C. § 110(4) provides: [T]he following are not infringements of
copyright: ... (4) performance of a nondramatic literary or musical work otherwise than in a
transmission to the public, without any purpose of direct or indirect commercial advantage and
without payment of any fee or other compensation for the performance to any of its performers,
promoters, or organizers ... The Court disagrees with Defendants with regard to the applicability of
this defense for two reasons. First, it is clear that Defendants’ use of the protected works in this
case involves a “transmission to the public.” Second, regardless of whether the alleged infringer
actually profited from the performance itself, “a profit-making enterprise which publicly performs
copyrighted musical compositions is deemed to do so for profit.” Gnossos Music v. DiPompo, 13
U.S.P.Q.2d 1539, 1540, 1989 WESTLAW 154358, 1989 U.S.Dist. LEXIS 15988 (D.Me. 1989) (Magistrate’s
recommendation affirmed by District Court, September 20, 1989). Furthermore, an enterprise such as
the Bucket Shop is considered to be a profit-making enterprise even if it never actually makes a
profit. Bourne Co. v. Speeks, 670 F.Supp. 777, 779 (E.D.Tenn.1987). (iv) Defense of Lack of
Jurisdiction As a Sixth affirmative defense, Defendants claim that “[tjhis is a case based upon
contract and should be resolved in the State Courts and not the Federal Courts.” Answer, p. 3.
However, the Court finds little discussion necessary with regard to the disposition of this defense.
First, this case may not be characterized as one “based upon contract.” Rather, it is the absence of
a contract between ASCAP and Defendants which gave rise to the lawsuit in the first place. Second,
28 U.S.C. § 1338(a) states that “[tjhe district courts shall have original jurisdiction of any civil
action arising under any Act of Congress relating to ... copyrights ...” It is thus clear that in
cases such as this, where the plaintiff alleges copyright infringement pursuant to the Copyright
Act, this Court has jurisdiction. (v) “Home-System” Defense Although Defendants are unclear with
regard to whether they claim exemption under the “home-system” defense provided by 17 U.S.C. §
110(5), Plaintiffs apparently are under the impression that Defendants have in fact raised that
defense. See Motion for Summary Judgment, p. 13 n. 4 (“Defendant[s] hint at a barely color-able
claim of an exemption under Section 110(5) of the Copyright Act____”). For the sake of thoroughness,
the Court will address that defense as if clearly raised. 17 U.S.C. § 110(5) provides: [T]he
following are not infringements of copyright: ... (5) communication of a transmission embodying a
performance or display of a work by the public reception of the transmission on a single receiving
apparatus of a kind commonly used in private homes, unless— (A) a direct charge is made to see or
hear the transmission; or (B) the transmission thus received is further transmitted to the public
The Court agrees with Plaintiffs that Defendants’ claim of exemption under § 110(5) in the present
situation is contrary to well-established law. In evaluating such situations, [t]he courts now
require a showing of three basic elements before they will find a “home-system” exemption. First,
the receiving apparatus must be of the kind commonly used in private homes. Second, the performances
must not be “further transmitted” to the public. Third, the business must be a small commercial
establishment. Hickory Grove, 749 F.Supp. at 1037. See also, Int’l Korwin, 855 F.2d at 378. With
regard to the question of whether Defendants’ receiving apparatus is “of the kind commonly used in
private homes”, numerous courts have found that sound systems virtually identical to that used by
Defendants in this case do not qualify as “home-type” systems. See Hickory Grove, 749 F.Supp. at
1037 (restaurant sound system consisting of recessed ceiling speakers, to which transmissions were
made from a radio amplifier, tuner, and audio cassette deck, was not a “home-type” system); Int’l
Korwin, 855 F.2d at 378 (recessed ceiling speakers and hidden wiring are not commonly found in
homes); Merrill v. Bill Miller’s Bar-B-Q Enterprises, Inc., 688 F.Supp. 1172, 1175 (W.D.Tex.1988)
(In finding that ceiling speakers attached to reeeiving apparatus by 40 feet of concealed wiring is
commercial in nature, the court stated, “The fact that individual components of the entire apparatus
may be ‘home-type’ does not make the entire apparatus ‘home-type.’ ”); Gnossos Music, cited supra,
13 U.S.P.Q.2d 1539 (portable stereo receiver connected to eight recessed ceiling speakers located in
dining rooms and lobby are commercial in nature). With regard to whether Defendants in this case
“further transmitted” the subject songs to the public, the Court finds that clearly they did. Again,
the copyright law defines “to transmit” as meaning “to communicate [a performance] by any device or
process whereby images or sounds are received beyond the place from which they are sent.” 17 U.S.C.
§ 101. “In the context of § 110(5), the courts have interpreted ‘to further transmit’ to mean any
dispersal of sound through a restaurant or other establishment.” Hickory Grove, 749 F.Supp. at 1038
(citing Int’l Korwin, 855 F.2d at 378; Bill Miller’s, 688 F.Supp. at 1175). Due to Defendants’
failure to qualify for exemption under either of the above requirements, it is not necessary for the
Court to determine whether Defendant’s establishment qualifies as a “small commercial
establishment.” Case law clearly indicates that the sound system used by Defendants does not qualify
as a “home-type” system. Furthermore, the case law clearly indicates that Defendant’s sound system
was indeed used to “further transmit” the performances in question to the public. As a result, it is
clear that Defendants’ use of the copyrighted material in question does not satisfy the requirements
for the “home-system” exemption provided by § 110(5). (vi) “Fair Use” Defense Defendants in their
Objection further claim the defense of the doctrine of “fair use.” Nevertheless, Defendants fail to
explain the applicability of this defense to these facts, and the Court in fact finds that the
doctrine does not apply to the present situation. 17 U.S.C. § 107 is the section of the Copyright
Law dealing with “fair use.” That section provides: Notwithstanding the provisions of section 106,
the fair use of a copyrighted work, including such use by reproduction in copies or phonorecords or
by any other means specified by that section, for purposes such as criticism, comment, news
reporting, teaching (including multiple copies for classroom use), scholarship, or research, is not
an infringement of copyright. The “fair use” doctrine was created to allow “some limited and useful
forms of copying and distribution that are tolerated as exceptions to copyright protection.” Pacific
and Southern Co., Inc. v. Duncan, 744 F.2d 1490, 1494 (11th Cir.1984), cert. denied, 471 U.S. 1004,
105 S.Ct. 1867, 85 L.Ed.2d 161 (1985). However, Defendants in this case have completely failed to
demonstrate how their use of the songs, by broadcasting them throughout a public bar and restaurant
area, falls within any of the above “fair use” situations. Indeed, the Court cannot imagine how, by
any stretch of the imagination, Defendants’ situation may be characterized as “fair use” as that use
is narrowly defined in § 107. Moreover, among the factors to be considered in determining whether a
performance falls within the narrow “fair use” exemption are whether the use “is of a commercial
nature or is for nonprofit educational purposes”, and “the amount and substantiality of the portion
used in relation to the copyrighted work as a whole.” 17 U.S.C. § 107(1), (3). As Plaintiffs
accurately point out, these factors warrant a finding that the “fair use” defense does not apply in
the present case. First, the performances in question were made at a bar and restaurant, clearly a
commercial venture. Second, the songs were played in their entirety, not portions thereof. See,
e.g., Bourne Co. v. Speeks, 670 F.Supp. at 780 (“Generally, the fair use doctrine does not apply
where copyrighted material is used as a whole.”). (vii) Defense of Lack of Intent to Infringe As a
final defense, Defendants in their Objection assert, again without any supporting evidence
whatsoever, that they “had no intent to violate the law____” Defendants’ Brief in Opposition, pp.
2-3. Nevertheless, the law is clear that lack of intent to infringe does not shield the infringer
from liability. See Id. at 780 (“It is not essential to a recovery of the statutory damages that the
giving of an infringing performance shall be a willful violation of the copyright.”). Moreover, even
if lack of intent were a valid defense to copyright infringement, Plaintiffs in this case present in
the affidavit of Gary Hartman evidence that in fact ASCAP continually warned Defendants of their
potential liability under the copyright law, and attempted to persuade Defendants to reinstate their
previous licensing agreement with ASCAP through the payment of licensing fees due. Furthermore, the
very fact, undisputed in this case, that Defendants once had a licensing agreement with ASCAP
demonstrates their knowledge that such an agreement was required under the copyright law. In
response, Defendants have failed to go “beyond the pleadings” and demonstrate the existence of a
“material issue of fact” with regard to whether Defendants intended to violate the copyright law. In
the face of evidence presented by Plaintiffs, Defendants’ bald assertion that they did not intend to
violate the copyright law is insufficient to escape summary judgment. Thus, the Court finds that in
moving for summary judgment, Plaintiffs have satisfied their burden of pointing out to the Court the
absence of any issues of material fact. Furthermore, based upon those undisputed facts, the Court
concludes that Defendants violated the Copyright Act, and furthermore that Defendants are not
entitled to claim any exemptions or defenses from the Copyright Act’s terms. In response, Defendant
has not satisfied its burden, but rather has failed to go “beyond the pleadings” and establish the
existence of a “material issue of fact” with regard to any of these issues. Thus, the Court finds
that Plaintiffs are entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (3) Remedy (i) Injunctive Relief
Plaintiffs request injunctive relief pursuant to 17 U.S.C. § 502(a). “An injunction is properly
imposed when there is a substantial likelihood of further infringement of plaintiff’s copyrights.”
Hickory Grove, 749 F.Supp. at 1040 (citing Sailor Music v. Mai Kai of Concord, Inc., 640 F.Supp.
629, 634 (D.N.H.1986)). See also, Pacific and Southern Co., 744 F.2d at 1499 (Past infringement and
substantial likelihood of future infringements normally entitle copyright holder to a permanent
injunction.). As was the case in Hickory Grove, where such an injunction was granted, this Court has
not been informed that Defendants have removed their radio-over-loudspeakers sound system, or that
they have obtained a license to perform the musical works in question since the filing of this
lawsuit. In light of Plaintiffs’ evidence that Defendants intentionally infringed the copyrights at
issue, as is evidenced by ASCAP’s repeated warnings pri- or to Defendants’ infringement, the Court
finds in this case a substantial likelihood that Defendants will continue to infringe Plaintiffs’
copyrights if an injunction is not granted. As a result, the Court finds injunctive relief to be
appropriate in this case, and hereby enjoins Defendants from further infringing Plaintiffs’
copyrights. This injunction shall be permanent, or shall last “until such time as [D]efendant[s]
obtain a license” to perform Plaintiffs’ copyrighted material. Int'l Korwin, 665 F.Supp. 652, 658.
(ii) Statutory Damages


